For a time the children of Thylea and Kentimane dwelt together in peace. But after Lutheria and Sydon enslaved their eldest brother for creating the myrmekes, the remaining siblings decided upon revenge.

Hergeron, the second eldest brother and the god of Strength and Valour, challenged Sydon to a duel, brashly confident in his own abilities. But Sydon had absorbed much of the enslaved Talieus’ power, and he easily bested his challenger. Sydon imprisoned the defeated Hergeron beneath a great tower, chaining him to so that the full weight of the building was forever pressing down on Hergeron’s enormous neck and shoulders.

The remaining four siblings, realizing Sydon had grown too powerful to challenge directly, decided to strike at Lutheria. In secret, they travelled to her island but the Goddess of Death had set a trap for her kin. Through the ritual sacrifice of a thousand basilisks, she had created a great pool of poisonous blood at the heart of her domain. When the invaders set foot upon the island they triggered wards of power that released the magic of the foul pool in a lethal burst, instantly turning three of them to stone. Only Chalcia, the Goddess of Swiftness, was nimble enough to escape.

Knowing the Twins would come after her, Chalcia took shelter beneath a massive volcano. There she could use her speed and quickness to survive in the labyrinth of tunnels and lava tubes. When Sydon learned of the failed attack against his sister-wife, his fury knew no bounds. In a blind rage, he summoned a great storm to lash all the islands of Thylea, seeking to flood the chambers where Chalcia was hiding.

The storms threatened to wash away Thylea itself, something that Kentimane would not allow. Kentimane had stayed neutral in the battles of his children but, once the safety of all of Thylea became threatened, he was forced to intervene. Kentimane blunted the storms, and he forbade Sydon and Lutheria from destroying the volcano that sheltered their fugitive sister. Sydon was loathe to let Chalcia escape retribution, but even he was not strong enough to defy his mighty father. Lutheria, cunning as ever, knew of another way to get revenge.

Uniting their power, and the power stolen from their fallen siblings, the Twins reached deep into the foundation of Thylea. They shifted rock and stone, careful not to disturb the islands above as they sealed off the tunnels and chambers beneath the volcano one by one.

Chalcia ran from their relentless work, driven ever deeper beneath the earth. In the end, the elusive Goddess of Swiftness found herself trapped in a tiny chamber at the very heart of the volcano itself. With every exit sealed, the walls slowly closed in tighter and tighter as burning lava oozed through cracks and crevices in floor and ceiling. Instead of crushing her, the Twins stopped at the last instant, entombing their sister for all eternity in a crypt of searing heat and noxious fumes.