> This small cavern is overgrown with living roots and vines. Flowers of every shape, scent and colour carpet the floor, overwhelming your senses. Several oak trees also grow, breaking upward through the partially-collapsed ceiling. A stream of water from the adjoining glade trickles through here.

This cavern is the resting place for some of the fey who have come to visit Demetria. There are two **satyrs** and one **dryad**, who have come to plead with her to stop antagonizing the mortals. Harmless pranks are one thing, but kidnapping young mortals is dangerous. They worry about a reprisal from Estoria.

### Fey Diplomacy
The satyrs and dryad won’t harm the heroes, but they won’t help them either. They will simply inform the heroes that Demetria rules the temple, that her actions are her own, and that she doesn’t represent the other fey of the forest. They would be pleased if Demetria were no longer a problem in Oldwood.

## Encounter: Loreus the Satyr
**Loreus** (CG *satyr*) is also here, and he is very interested in the heroes. He is quite talkative, and he asks many questions about their purpose in the temple. Loreus is different from most of his kind and has an intense curiosity about the settler races.

### Demetria's History
Loreus explains that Demetria was consumed with a desire for revenge after her sister was killed by Estor Arkelander, five hundred years ago. She sought out Lutheria and formed a dark pact with the Titan, vowing to cast a shadow over the Oldwoods, to make the mortal races remember their fear of the dark.

### Lovestruck Satyr
Loreus is driven by his emotions, both good and bad. If one of the heroes shows him even an ounce of kindness, he will fall in love with them. Loreus will stealthily follow his new love when they leave the cave. While Loreus doesn’t know details of the maenad initiation feast, he suspects foul play and urges the heroes to investigate the kitchens