> This feasting hall is dominated by a huge table shaped from living oak. The table has enough chairs to seat a dozen guests. Food and wine are artfully arranged on the tabletop. A beautiful silver dragon horn with gold fittings sits at the centre of the table.

This is a feasting chamber with a giant table, beautifully laid out with wine and food. Reflected light pours in from the mirrors.

**Demetria** (CE *dryad*) is here with four adoring teenage girls. They are preparing for the initiation feast. 

### Loyal Gygan
Demetria's **gygan** servant is nine feet tall, and he looms in the background. He has a single eye (like a cyclops), six powerful arms, and a number of weapons and shields. He’s also very clever, although he doesn’t speak much. Sydon has charged him with both protecting and watching over Demetria.

The dryad invites the heroes to sit down and join the feast. She is granting her best student a special prize—a *short bow of cupidity*. She will playfully accuse the heroes of spoiling a special moment for her acolytes. 

### The Dryad's Appeal
As long as the heroes don’t initiate combat, Demetria is happy to talk. She knows that the heroes have been chosen by the Oracle, but she dismisses their quest as an impossible one. She extolls Sydon’s strength and Lutheria’s beauty. She speaks of the cruelty of the Dragonlords, explaining that her sister lost her life to the wickedness of Estor Arkelander. She asks the heroes whether they are truly fighting for the right side in the looming conflict. She then invites them to share the meal with her and the girls.

### A Grisly Feast
The feast consists of the cooked bodies of the young men who were paired with the girls at the table. If the heroes are aware of this, then they can convince the girls with a successful *DC 15 Persuasion check* (an automatic success if Corinna is with them).

If Herkus is with the heroes, he will transform into his gnome form, sniff the air, and declare that the meat smells like cooked human flesh.

## The Ritual is Completed
Eating the human flesh has no ill effects on any of the heroes, but if they cannot dissuade the girls from partaking in the feast, then Demetria’s ritual is completed, and the girls are transformed into four **maenads**:

> Demetria smiles at the girls as they hungrily devour the feast. “I’m glad to see that you have such appetites! There’s nothing more delicious than a lover’s flesh, is there?”
> 
> Suddenly, the girls begin to shriek in pain. Their teeth sharpen, the bones in their legs snap backwards, and horns grow from their heads. In a matter of seconds, they have all been transformed into monstrous maenads.
> 
> Demetria gently pets one of her new servants. “Shush now, my sweetlings. This is a great blessing. Now, you shall have the pleasure to serve Lutheria for the rest of your lives. And you can start by slaughtering these uninvited guests!”

At this point, Demetria will order everyone to attack the heroes and feast on their flesh.

## The Ritual is Disrupted 
Revealing the true nature of the meal to the girls will infuriate them so that they attack Demetria, restraining her for three rounds. The gygan will easily kill the girls unless the heroes intervene.

If the heroes attack Demetria before the ritual is completed, then the girls will scream and hide, while the gygan will defend Demetria. They fight to the death.

## Treasure
Demetria carries a *short bow of cupidity*. The *Horn of Balmytria* occupies the centre of the table.

