> This expansive cave is a garden of strange ferns, fragrant flowers, and luminescent fungi. A massive tree stump sits in the centre, overgrown by a carpet of green clovers. A stream of clear water winds around the trunk, babbling noisily. Light streams in from an opening in the stone ceiling. The air is pleasantly damp, and the smell of the garden is intoxicating.

This cavern is used as a place to grow rare plants of various kinds. It is moist and is fed by a small underground stream. The mirror system reflects light down a small shaft into the underground glade. This is how the rare plants get sunlight.

## Encounter: Sostrate

Two **goatlings** chase a young man around the glade. He shrieks when they grab at him, but they always release him so that they can resume the chase.

Four other **goatlings** are currently hidden and watching from the shadows. The boy, **Sostrate** (NG *commoner*), is one of Corinna's friends. If the heroes do not intervene, the ‘game’ will eventually end in his death.

If the goatlings see the heroes, they will first try to finish off Sostrate and then attack the heroes. Roll for initiative and make the intent of the goatlings clear. Any goatling who is damaged before his first round will shift his target to the heroes. If Herkus is on a hero’s shoulder, he will throw a nut and draw the ire of one of the goatlings. If Corinna is present, she will rush forward to save Sostrate. The four goatlings hidden in shadows will attack anyone who moves in to save Sostrate.

## The Ancient Tree Stump

>This massive stump must have belonged to a magnificent tree, centuries ago. It was cruelly hewn down to waist-height. Thousands of green clovers grow over the ancient injury.

This was a sacred tree to the fey of Oldwood, but the Dragonlord Estor led a band deep into the forest and chopped it down. He carved the tree up and used it for the mast, keel, and prow of the *Ultros*.

### Demetria's Sister
This was once the sacred tree of Demetria's sister, another dryad. Demetria keeps a small clay pot with her sister's ashes resting on the top of the stump. If opened, the ashes smells of roses. If Demetria discovers that anyone has touched the ashes, she will be determined to kill that individual.

## Garden of Strange Plants

There are also several rare and useful plants here:

**Ethereum Plant**. This can be harvested in order to create the poison, *essence of ether*. It takes an hour to harvest enough of the plant to make a single dose. There are enough plants in the chamber for 12 doses. Proficiency with the Poisoner’s Kit is required.

**Aconite**. This can be harvested in order to make the poison, *assassin’s blood*. It takes two hours to harvest enough of the plant to make a single dose. There are enough aconite plants in the chamber for 12 doses. Proficiency with the Poisoner’s Kit is required.

**Sunril Berry Bush**. The berries from this legendary bush have the same effect as *goodberries*. Thirty berries can be harvested from the bush. The berries are easy to harvest, but they will spoil in 24 hours.