> This cavern is blanketed with luminescent pink and teal-coloured mushrooms. The walls are hewn from smooth rock, and they slope upward from the ground, leaving many comfortable spots to recline. A stream of water from the adjoining glade flows into a stone basin in the floor.

This cavern is filled with the Madon fungus which doesn’t require sunlight to grow. The Madon is famed for its use in the making of the *truth serum* poison. It is also used as a recreational drug. When eaten, it causes a state of euphoria that lasts for hours.

### Goatlings
A pair of **goatlings** hide at the back of the cave. They attack the heroes as soon as they see them.

### Teenage Revelers
There are currently eight teenage men and women in the cavern chamber. They have all been eating the Madon fungus and are in a euphoric state: they are considered to be poisoned for the next two hours. All of them are under the sway of Demetria and are awaiting their turn to be ‘initiated’.

The teenagers cannot be convinced that Demetria is anything other than a benevolent goddess who has promised her devoted followers wealth, beauty, and fame. If separated from Demetria for 24 hours, they can be persuaded of the nymph’s true intent with a successful **DC 10 Charisma (Persuasion) check**.

The teenagers have the stats of **commoners** and are divided into pairs: Lysandra and Bassilus, Kleon and Heron, Irene and Draco, Callisto and Ariston.

### Grasping Roots
There are two **roots** close to the entrance to the cave. These roots will attempt to grapple anyone trying to leave the cave.