> As you descend into the yawning tunnel below the stairway, you feel a penetrating cold seep through your armour and into your bones. The air is choked with dust, and your footfalls echo through the silence. After a short distance, you come to a fork in the tunnel and you must choose which path you will take to continue onward.

The maze is patrolled by two kinds of enemies. 

### Skeletons
These **skeletons** wear breastplates and use shields, giving them AC 18. They patrol in groups of three, and they are trained in hoplite soldier tactics. 

### Minotaur Skeletons
The **minotaur skeletons** patrol in pairs, with one minotaur attacking the heroes from the front while the other comes from the rear.

##### The skeletons in Xander’s tomb are equipped differently
than standard skeletons. All of them have breastplates, shields, short swords, and pikes. The skeletons fight in a phalanx formation, with the skeleton in front using its shield, and the skeletons in the back using two handed pikes. The skeletons in front using shields and short swords have an AC of 18. The skeletons in the back have AC 16 and attack using extra-long pikes. They attack with +4 to hit, reach 15 ft. and inflict 1d10+2 damage on hit.

### Labyrinth Encounters

You may choose to allow the party to try and navigate the labyrinth as if they were solving an actual maze, but this may take quite a bit of time. For a simpler approach, you might consider having the party stumble through the catacombs, discovering each area in the order that it has been presented (X19, X20, X21, etc.) 

For every 5 minutes of exploration, roll on the following table. As an alternative, you can roll on the table when the heroes enter a new area in the maze.

| d20   | Result                   |
| ----- | ------------------------ |
| 1-8   | Nothing                  |
| 9-12  | Graxis                   |
| 13-16 | 3 **skeletons**          |
| 17-20 | 2 **minotaur skeletons** |
