>This rectangular room has a high ceiling, sculpted walls, and a flagstone floor. A mangled skeleton lies near the entryway. The walls are embellished with rows of screaming stone faces. The far end of the room features a pair of heavy bronze double doors. Two skeletons are sprawled on the floor in front of the doors. Their bones are partially crushed, and their armour is mangled.

This trap triggers when more than 300 pounds of weight have gathered in the room.

### Bronze Doors
The bronze doors are barred from the other side and require a DC 30 Strength check to open. If the trap is triggered the doors will become unbarred, but will still be stuck and will still require a Strength check to open as discussed below.

### Smash Trap
The trap works over 4 rounds. Have all layers roll initiative. On initiative 20 of the first round, a portcullis descends in the entrance, cutting off any retreat. The south wall then begins to push forward with a screech of metal against metal (characters who pulled the lever in The False Tomb (X20) will recognize this noise as being the same one they heard).

On initiative count 10 of the second round, spikes protrude from the mouths of the wall carvings, dealing **10 (3d6) piercing damage** to everyone in the room (one time only). At initiative count 1 of the fourth round, anyone who is still alive in the room takes **32 (10d6) bludgeoning damage** as the wall smashes inward. Anyone reduced to 0 hit points is crushed to a paste.

There are three ways to escape the trap:
- Pulling the lever in [[X20. The False Tomb|The False Tomb (X20)]] will stop it. This causes the spikes and portcullis to return to their original positions, and the trap will remain inactive for a full hour.
- It is also possible to force open the bronze doors. A successful **DC 15 Strength (Athletics) check** opens the door in 3 rounds. A **check of 20+** opens the door in 2 rounds, while a **check of 25+** opens them immediately.
- Lifting the portcullis requires a successful **DC 25 Strength (Athletics) check**.

## Treasure
Scattered amongst the skeletal remains of the victims of the trap are 112 gp and 245 sp.