> This large, barrel-vaulted chamber is decorated with polished bronze fittings, which flicker like gold in the dim red light of a single torch. The centre of the room is dominated by a black marble sarcophagus, engraved with the likeness of Dragonlord Xander. Whispers break the silence, solemn voices from ages past, extolling the deeds of the man interred here…

The chamber is lit by a single *ever burning torch*. The lid of the sarcophagus weighs nearly a ton. It takes a combined Strength of 22 to slide the lid off the sarcophagus. As soon as the sarcophagus is opened, if Graxis is alive, he will arrive to attack the heroes.

> The hulking form of Graxis suddenly looms in the tomb entryway. He snorts derisively. “Come to pay your respects, have you? Well, what do you think of your great hero? Xander the conqueror. Xander the murderer. I am the last of my tribe. I cannot rest. I cannot sleep. Xander slaughtered my people. He enslaved my family and bound us to this cursed place. Among your kind, he is revered for this. But I spit on his bones.”

Graxis soon loses patience:

>The hulking minotaur hefts his great axe and bellows so loudly that the very walls of the tomb seem to quake. He charges at you!

After two rounds of combat with Graxis, read the following at the start of the third round.

>Without a sound, Xander’s desiccated corpse rises from his sarcophagus. He raises his hands towards Graxis. The minotaur’s great axe appears to jump from the beast's hands of its own volition, flying into the grasp of the undead king. Xander turns to face your party. Then, curiously, he changes his withered grip on the weapon and presents its handle to you.

Without his weapon, Graxis can only use his Gore attack for the remainder of the battle. 

Xander is a **wight** with a Strength of 22 and maximum hit points (66). He wears the *Breastplate of Mytros* (AC 18), though the armour is badly dented. Xander's alignment is true neutral, and he will not fight unless absolutely forced to by the party.

When Graxis is dead, Xander will stand up, silently remove his breastplate, and lay it on the ground in front of his sarcophagus. This done, he will silently return to his sarcophagus and drags the lid back into place.

## Treasure
Other than Xander’s famed equipment, there is no other treasure in the room. The *Shield of Volkan* can be looted from Graxis's corpse.

