The inscription on the tomb reads:

	ADONIS NEURDAGON
	Oathsworn of Pythor
	Most beautiful of Dragonlords
	If but his sword work had been as beautiful.

>A beautiful sarcophagus hewn from bright white marble stands in the centre of the tomb. The lid is carved with the likeness of a handsome warrior wearing a suit of armour that is more ornamental than practical. Although the carvings that line the walls ostensibly depict the great battles of the First War, there is a clear emphasis on the beauty of the dragonrider rather than his prowess in combat.

Adonis was a Dragonlord who followed Xander across the oceans to Thylea. He was not particularly well-liked by his peers, but he was known for his beauty and extreme wealth. His tomb is a trap. If the sarcophagus is touched, a block of marble will seal the tomb.

>You hear a snap, followed by a grinding noise from above you. A stone block falls and seals the entrance. Silver liquid gushes from the hole in the roof that held the blocking stone. The quicksilver reaches your feet and begins to fill the chamber at an alarming pace.

### Mercury Trap
From the space where the block dropped, mercury will pour into the chamber—enough to fill it entirely. It takes three rounds for the tomb to fill up, and each round, everyone inside must make a **DC 15 Constitution saving throw** or become poisoned. At the start of the fourth round, there is no more air. Use the drowning rules at this point. Heroes with the ability to breathe water will still drown in mercury.

### Escaping the Trap
The only way to escape is with brute force. The marble block sealing the tomb must be moved with a successful DC 30 Strength check, or it must be destroyed in some way. The marble block has 100 HP, AC 17, and a damage threshold of 5.

## Treasure
Adonis is wearing a *breastplate +1* and a *short sword of quickness*. This tomb is consecrated, so taking either of these items will afflict the thief with the *curse of the grave robber*.