> This room is dominated by a large circular vat of molten lava in the center. Something is swimming beneath the bubbling magma. An ornate bronze sphere stands close to the lava pool. The sphere is supported by four legs and has a spout that faces toward the lava.

There are two **death dogs** that rest here. They sit by the bronze device, but they don’t do anything except growl at the heroes. If anyone tries to touch the bronze sphere, the death dogs attack.

### The Forgekeeper
In the lava pool is the Forgekeeper, a **salamander**. She swims in the lava pool and is willing to talk to the heroes. She explains that the bronze device has been configured to keep her from escaping by blasting the area with cold unless it’s disabled. It was designed by the dwarves who originally built the forge. The Forgekeeper is aware of the history of the entire place and is willing to share the information if the heroes promise to disable the sphere. The Forgekeeper also knows the password to the elevator.

### Triggering the Trap
Should the Forgekeeper leave the lava pool before the bronze sphere device is deactivated, it makes a clicking noise and anyone in the room is suddenly struck by the effect of a cone of cold spell for **36 (8d8) cold damage**. This cold blast repeats every five rounds until the bronze device is disabled.

### Disabling the Trap
The device can be disabled by smashing the sphere (AC 18, 30 HP). When smashed, the sphere will release its magic across the entire room, inflicting **36 (8d8) cold damage** on everyone present. A successful **DC 15 Investigation check** will reveal that the device can be jammed. If jammed, the device makes a grinding noise every round for five rounds, and then the trap triggers as normal.

## The Forgekeeper's Contract

Negotiating with the Forgekeeper will bring the attention of the **young Cerberus** hound in the other room. The hound will enter the room and attack with the **death dogs**.

Once freed, the Forgekeeper thanks the heroes. She has been imprisoned for centuries and fosters a burning hatred for all dwarves. She will treat dwarves in the party with hostility. The dwarves summoned her to the mortal world and then bound her within their forge.

She not only powered the forge, but also used her skills as a metalsmith to help the god Volkan craft many powerful mithral and adamantine items. She must remain for five centuries unless the contract that bound her is destroyed. She thinks that the tablet bearing the contract is kept in the [[F21. The Blast Furnace| Blast Furnace (F21)]]. She knows how to restart the forge and is willing to do so if the party agrees to release her from her contract.

If the heroes give the Forgekeeper the contract, she will melt it. However, instead of immediately returning to the Plane of Fire, she will remain for one year and forge items for the heroes. The heroes can try to coerce the Forgekeeper with the contract tablet, but the results are always the same.