> This room appears to be a dead blast furnace. Four large stone vats are lined up against the walls. Spouts extend from the walls over the top of the vats. At the centre of the room, there is a 3 ft. wide circular hole

This is where mithral ore was melted down into ingots. The blast furnace is guarded by a **young Cerberus** hound. He is intelligent enough to hold a conversation with the heroes. He claims to be a servant of [[Lutheria|Lutheria, the Mistress of Death]].

The hound’s mother was killed a few years ago by a great beast from the bowels of the earth. He took her place by devouring a half-dozen of his brothers and sisters. He won’t talk for long, because he’s very, very hungry. He has three mouths to feed, after all!

### Treasure
The Cerberus hound has gathered some of the dwarves’ ancient treasure. Coins totaling 56 pp, 125 gp, and 389 sp are gathered in a corner. There is also an *adamantine trident* and six *adamantine javelins*. The rune tablet that keeps the Forgekeeper bound to the Mithral Mine is part of this treasure hoard.

## Event: Awakening the Forge

Only the Forgekeeper can awaken the Forge. Once the cerberus hound is defeated, she tells the heroes to wait, then slithers down a hole in the floor. Five rounds later, she returns from the same hole. Lava bubbles from the hole and begins to flow in rivulets through the room. Anyone with a **passive Perception of 15 or higher** hears the dwarven elevator activating.

There are multiple levers throughout this area which can be used to tip a cauldron of molten lava or to cause jets of fire to blow out from vents.

### Cauldron Traps
Choose two spaces on the map. These spaces are where the cauldrons will dump lava, doing **28 (8d6) fire damage** to anyone in the space.

### Fire Vent Traps
Choose two spaces on the map. These spaces are where vents of fire will erupt, doing **14 (4d6) fire damage** to anyone in a 15 ft. line from the opening of the vent.

## Encounter: The Troglodyte Horde
If the heroes have not defeated the troglodyte king, then awakening the Forge summons a horde of troglodytes to attack the forge area. One minute after the Forgekeeper awakens the forge, noises can be heard from the direction of the dwarven elevator. The Forgekeeper will tell them that the sounds are similar to that made by a “strange and disgusting beast” that came to visit her a year ago. She describes the King of the Troglodytes and explains that she gave him the password to the elevator. 

At this point, the heroes must roll for initiative. On initiative count 10 of the first round, the elevator door opens and a dozen **troglodytes**, four **troglodyte brutes**, and the **troglodyte king** emerge. The king will send four stealthy troglodytes to scout out ahead of them. He plans to kill all of the heroes. The Forgekeeper provides hints as to how the party can use the forge's many traps against the filthy creatures.