>At the entrance to this chamber, a beautiful woman in golden raiment is stretched out above the underground river, held captive by tendrils of animated water. In the chamber behind her, a hideous, blue-skinned woman cackles as she plunges a knife into a terrified acolyte.

Versi is furious with Heleka for slaughtering her temple attendants, who were like children to her. She would kill the hag if she could, but she has been restrained in her resting chamber by a water weird. The water weird is completely fixated on holding the Oracle, and it will not retaliate when attacked.

Once Heleka has finished tormenting Versi, she plans to drag the Oracle into the depths of the cave and search for an exit to the ocean.
Treasure. Heleka carries a single pearl worth 100 gp. She also has a note that reads:

>Heleka... I bid you now make good upon the oath of service that once you swore me. You know the secret ways through the Forgotten Sea to the cave where my daughter dwells. Find her and bring her to Praxys unharmed, and I will release you from your oath.
— Sydon, Lord of Al

***The Oracle's Belongings.*** In addition to what can be found on Heleka, many of the gifts that the Oracle has received over the years are found here. These include: five black pearl gems worth 500 gp each, three emerald gems worth 1000 gp each, and six fine brooches worth 750 gp each. Taking any of the Oracle’s gifts marks the thief as cursed by the gods. The curse can only be lifted by a greater restoration spell or by bringing the treasure back and begging forgiveness from the Oracle.
