> This chamber has rough-hewn stone steps that rise up to a platform at the far end. On the platform is a huge troglodyte sitting on a crude throne. This creature wears a golden circlet, and he is flanked by several others of his kind. He smiles wickedly and addresses you in your language: “How dost thou, sweetlings?”

	The Eloquent Troglodyte
	
	The king is able to speak the common tongue, but he does so in an unusual manner. Caliban from Shakespeare’s The Tempest is a good inspiration for his style of speech.
	
	Describing his predicament: 
	This golden band taught me language; and my profit on’t is, I know how to curse. The gods torment me; Oh! Such unworthy company these foul things are.
	
	Proposing a game of riddles: 
	Thou makest me merry; I am full of pleasure: let us play a game! 
	
	Reacting to insults: 
	Prithee, tread softly, that my anger not be unleashed upon thee!
	
	Shouting encouragement to his brutes during battle:
	Lo, lo, again! Bite them to death, I prithee.

## Game of Riddles

The king moans about the unfairness of his predicament and asks to engage the heroes in a game of riddles. He is evil to the core, and plans to eat the party, no matter the outcome of the game. However, he desperately wishes to test his enhanced intellect against the heroes, so he would prefer to outsmart them.

| Riddle                                                                                                           | Answer  |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------- |
| What becometh harder to catch, the faster that thou runneth?                                                     | Breath  |
| What dost thou breaketh every time thou speaketh?                                                                | Silence |
| What runs but never walks, has mouths but never talks, has heads but never weeps, and has beds but never sleeps? | A river |
The king is accompanied by two **troglodyte brutes** and one female **troglodyte**. The king is a **troglodyte brute** with maximum hit points and 19 Intelligence.

### Treasure
Aside from the king's *headband of intellect*, he carries a single *mithral ingot* as a royal sceptre. The sceptre is worth 500 gp.