> Before you stands an imposing structure supported by carved stone columns. A series of steps carved to resemble crashing waves leads to the temple’s entrance. Inside is an enormous central statue made of blue-green marble. It depicts a tall, wrathful man with three eyes and long grey hair. He wields an onyx black glaive. This is Sydon, the Lord of Storms.

This temple is the primary place of worship for Sydon in all of Thylea. The temple itself is a *peripteros* with 48 columns. It is built on a high podium that is accessed by an imposing set of steps shaped like ocean waves.

A stair at the centre of the temple leads to several underground chambers where the paladins of Sydon meet to discuss the Order's many plans.

The Order of Sydon are headquartered here. They are a band of zealots who revere the ocean god Sydon above all others. They seek to the end all worship of the Five.

During the day, the temple is filled with citizens who come to hear the teachings of Sydon or receive blessings from the priests. During these busy periods, at least three **priests** of Sydon with six **captains** as protectors can be found within. At night, the temple proper is quiet, although the underground chambers are occupied by priests and soldiers.

## Gaius and His Dragon
The highest-ranking member of the Order of Sydon is the paladin, [[Commander Gaius]]. During the day, he can often be found in the [[M4. The Great Palace|Great Palace (M4)]], but at night he is usually here. Gaius is a true believer—a zealot who knows that the Five are false gods, thieves who stole the power of the true god, Sydon.

According to Gaius, the Five are useless pretenders: Pythor is a carousing drunkard; Kyrah composes terrible poetry; Vallus preens herself in an ivory tower; and Volkan is a crazy old dwarf who builds useless trinkets.

Once the heroes sail into the Cerulean Gulf on the *Ultros*, Gaius will move to the Island of Yonder, where the Order of Sydon have a base. Gaius is able to move between Yonder and Mytros easily due to a gift given to him by Sydon: **Argyn** (LE *young silver dragon*).

Argyn was bred by Sydon at his tower, [[S25. The Dragon's Chamber|Praxys (S25)]]. The dragon has been conditioned to believe that the Five are evil and that Sydon is the one and only force for good in the world. Argyn’s presence in the city is the subject of widespread gossip and admiration, but the dragon’s very existence infuriates Queen Vallus.