 > Before you stands the most opulent villa in the city. Despite its great size, the house itself is difficult to see: the grounds are full of lush gardens, statuary, pools, fields, and a large hedge maze with what appears to be a great fountain shooting up from its centre.
 
 This is one of the most expensive villas in Mytros. It is home to the powerful merchant lord, **Taran Neurdagon** (LN **noble**). He is descended from the ancient Dragonlord, Adonis Neurdagon, and he has access to immense wealth, although most of it is bound up in his sizable real estate holdings.
 
Taran doesn’t allow uninvited guests, but he is willing to make an exception for heroes who are willing to perform a specific task for him: he wants someone to track down and destroy the so-called Lady of Coins.

### Guardians
The entrance to the estate is guarded by two **veterans**. These stalwarts will turn the heroes away unless they mention the Lady of Coins, at which point, they will invite the heroes into the main courtyard to await Taran. The estate is also patrolled by two **captains** and twelve **soldiers** from the Order of Sydon.

### Treasure
Taran keeps 500 pp and 5,000 gp worth of gemstones, jewellery, and other trinkets in a locked chest in the study of his estate. The chest can be opened with a successful **DC 20 Dexterity check** with thieves' tools. The chest also contains the deeds for over 6,000 acres of land in the regions surrounding Mytros.

## Quest: The Lady of Coins
When Taran eventually appears, he explains his predicament to the heroes. The Lady of Coins is a self-styled folk hero who robs from the rich and gives to the poor of Stygian Row. She has an intense hatred for the minotaur slave trade and aggressively attacks those who try to make an honest profit. Taran admits that he makes a large portion of his wealth from the minotaur slave trade, so his business suffers more than most.

Taran explains that the Lady is cursed—she is a medusa who petrifies anyone who crosses her. Further, he explains that minotaurs are violent beasts with limited intelligence who revel in bloodshed, and the fact that the Lady of Coins has an affinity for them speaks volumes about her character. Taran also suspects that she is behind the Cult of the Snake, a thieves’ guild deeply involved with smuggling and murder.

### Reward
Taran offers the heroes 5,000 gp for the Lady’s head. He is willing to pay as much as 10,000 gp, if pressed. He advises the heroes to begin their search for the Lady in *Stygian Row*.