> This verdant garden is circled by a ring of immense, ancient oak trees. The air around you is sweet with the scents of flowers, although many of them are unrecognizable to you. You can hear loud voices down one of the many paths that wander into the green spaces.

The *Great Gardens of Mytros* are held to be the most beautiful in all Thylea, boasting many paths, trees, flowers, ponds, and fountains to heal the restless spirit. The gardens are surrounded by perfectly-ordered oak trees, all of which are five centuries old. These oaks were planted when the city was founded.

**Vitalis** (LN halfling **commoner**) resides here. This corpulent halfling is sometimes called “Vitalis the Fat” or “Vitalis the Fragrant” (although never to his face). Many believe him to be the wisest mortal in Mytros. Vitalis lives, sleeps, and eats in the gardens, and he is well-fed by his many admirers.

However, his personal habits don’t seem particularly wise, as he never cleans himself, and he dresses in rags.

He also flatulates, belches, and harasses everyone who passes by. Some of his favourite insults include:
• It looks like your face caught fire... and someone tried to put it out with a hammer!
• You’re so ugly that when your mother sent you out to play, they fined her for littering!
• Mirrors reveal many things, but they cannot talk... and lucky for you, they can’t laugh, either!
• You there! Turn around. Hmmm... I can tell that you're a centaur, but all I can see is the rear end!

### Seeking Advice
Despite his foul demeanour, Vitalis deserves his reputation. He gives out sound advice to anyone who pays him in fine food or wine. He devours the offerings and then answers questions in a drunken haze, one question per person who feeds him. Treat this as the equivalent of the *divination* spell.

On subsequent or follow-up questions, he will shoo interrogators away, tell them that they must make their own mistakes if they are to learn anything, and probably pass wind from one end or the other.