> Scantily-clad men and women line this building’s large windows, reclining on crushed velvet pillows, rich silks, and gilded furniture. The sign hanging above the door depicts a feathered woman in the throes of ecstasy.
> 
As you enter, a beautiful siren dressed in a scarlet toga approaches you. “Welcome to the Siren’s Roost. Here, you can taste the finest fruits of immortality. How may we serve you?”

The woman is **Ambrosia** (NG siren **noble**), the owner of this tavern. She genuinely seeks to entertain her guests with fine music, wine, and “interesting” company. Unlike similar establishments, she does not discriminate against satyrs, minotaurs, or centaurs, but she does prefer to entertain rich clients and famous heroes.

When engaged in longer conversations, Ambrosia makes it clear that she despises Julius, the owner of *The Satyr’s Tail*, who used to send thugs to collect “protection” money. Now, she employs **Vorena** (LN half-orc **captain**), a taciturn former centurion, to protect her establishment. Vorena does her job well.

Each of Ambrosia's escorts claims to trace their lineage to a god or a nymph, so that clients can pick their preferred flavour of “immortality.”

### Son of Pythor
One of the escorts is **Kalistor** (CG **spy**), who is actually a child of Pythor. He has met his father only once, and they didn’t get along. He is quick to fall in love with any hero who has 18+ Strength.

## Quest: Kidnapped Children
Kalistor spends his time in Mytros trying to undermine the [[M20. Temple of Lutheria|Temple of Lutheria (M20)]]. He believes that Trellus and Septia are keeping children locked in their wine cellar for use in human sacrifices. He has no rewards to offer, but he emphasizes that if the rumours are true, then rescuing the children would be the right thing to do.

**Companions at the Siren's Roost**

| Escort   | Claimed lineage                          | Truth | Cost   |
| -------- | ---------------------------------------- | ----- | ------ |
| Axios    | Son of Narsus,<br>the lost god of beauty | False | 100 gp |
| Calypsa  | Daughter of a nereid (sea nymph)         | True  | 200 gp |
| Doria    | Daughter of a naiad (river nymph)        | True  | 50 gp  |
| Eosia    | Daughter of an aurae (sky nymph)         | False | 100 gp |
| Kalistor | Son of Pythor and a mortal woman         | True  | 50 gp  |
| Phasis   | Son of Helios, the ancient sun god       | False | 250 gp |
| Strymon  | Son of a nereid (sea nymph)              | True  | 100 gp |
| Teygete  | Daughter of an oread (mountain nymph)    | False | 50 gp  |