> The interior of this crowded tavern is thick with smoke and various unpleasant smells. Many of the patrons appear to be half-orcs, while others are obviously sailors. It's difficult to walk through the tavern without tripping over its many inebriated patrons.

The sailors who come to this tavern drink to forget what they’ve seen on the waters of the Cerulean Gulf. The wine here may be over-sweet and watered-down, but it’s also cheap and plentiful.

The taproom is filled with smoke and smells of fish and unwashed bodies. The tavern is run by **Julius** (CE **veteran**), a nasty old man and former slave trader. He had his own galley before he ran afoul of Cerulean pirates and lost everything, including his left arm. He doesn’t like seeing his patrons bothered. If the heroes disturb his regulars, he’ll send three of his bouncers (CE **thugs**) to remove them from the premises.

**Fryxon**, a s**Satyr**, befriended Julius a few years back. He provides music for the tavern. If a fight breaks out or the bouncers need help in removing someone, Fryxon will use his pan pipes to help put aggressors to sleep.

### The Cult of the Snake
This is one of the only places to find information about the Cult of the Snake. Fryxon loves to cause mischief, and if asked about the Cult of the Snake, he will loudly introduce the questioners to Grecos and Nero (see below).

## Tavern Patrons
The tavern is crowded day and night by sailors, bandits, thieves, mercenaries, and other miscreants.

### Varkon’s Crew
One of the captains is **Varkon** (CN **bandit captain**), a half-orc, who is accompanied by a half-dozen of his sailors (CN **bandits**). They are a rowdy bunch, boasting about their adventures in the Cerulean Gulf. Varkon often works for the Lady of Coins, and he isn’t afraid to drop her name as a threat. He knows the route that leads to the *Island of the Dragon*, and the Lady of Coins uses him to deliver petrified musicians and performers to Hexia. Varkon also knows where to find the Cult of the Snake’s secret entrance into the *Colossus of Pythor*.

### Grecos and Nero
Another table is occupied by two thieves who are members of the Cult of the Snake. They always visit *The Satyr’s Tail* after successful robberies in order to celebrate by spending their ill-got gains. **Grecos** and **Nero** (CE **spies**) are brothers who love to insult the other patrons with sarcastic remarks. They are also fiercely loyal to the Lady of Coins and, if they notice the heroes investigating the Lady, they will split up. Grecos will let the Lady of Coins know that the heroes are interested; Nero will try to follow the heroes.

### Wine Merchants
Trellus and Septia (apparently NE commoners when they appear in public) from the [[M20. Temple of Lutheria|Temple of Lutheria (M20)]] sometimes drop by to deliver new wine to Julius. They are looking for mercenaries to help them track down some missing wine caravans.