> This relatively humble temple has an entrance with five stone columns. While it is smaller than the Temple of Sydon, it displays a much higher level of artistry, boasting lofty architecture and beautiful statuary. Intricate carvings embellish nearly every surface, complete with gilding and inlaid precious stones throughout.

This temple is the oldest civic building in Mytros. Elected representatives from the city districts of Mytros and the outlying villages meet in council here every new moon. However, the structure of civic life is increasingly dictated by the Order of Sydon, who believe that the Temple of the Five should be destroyed in order to appease the jealousy of the Lord of Storms.

Queen Vallus often visits here. During the day, she can be found at the palace, where she runs the city's civic affairs. She comes here at night to pray to her mother, Mytros, the Goddess of Dawn.

The temple is tended by five high priests (LG *priests*) and each high priest is attended by five **acolytes**. The priests provide all common temple services at no charge, including the *lesser* and *greater restoration* spells.

## Test of Beauty and Wisdom
Outside of the temple during the day is a gang of young men who are admirers of Vallus. They are led by a vain young man named Sulla (LN acolyte), the youngest son of the powerful merchant, Taran Neurdagon.

Sulla is enamoured with Vallus, and spends all of his time trying to gain an audience with the goddess or catch a glimpse of her as she leaves the temple. Vallus finds the young man obnoxious. She ignores him entirely, much to his chagrin. The last time he tried to gain her attention, Vallus told him that she would agree to have an audience with him if he brought her a single mortal of unsurpassed beauty and wisdom.

Sulla has heard of the heroes’ exploits. He will single out the hero with the highest Charisma score and another with the highest Wisdom score. He begs the two heroes to accompany him to see Vallus. If the party agrees, then Sulla will take them directly to the queen.

Vallus is amused by the fact that the heroes have been roped in by Sulla, but she will humour them. Sulla presents the two heroes and extolls their beauty and wisdom, hoping to impress her. Vallus remains unmoved, pointing out the heroes' various flaws.

This forces Sulla into the realm of hyperbole—the heroes are the wisest, most beautiful creatures ever to grace the city! Vallus reluctantly agrees, until finally, Sulla's unrequited affections have been completely transferred from the queen to the heroes.

Sulla proposes marriage to each of the heroes, offering a gold ring inset with a diamond worth 1,000 gp. Whichever hero agrees to marry the young man gets the ring. The agreement is not binding, but this entire situation greatly amuses the queen.