>This small temple stands out from its surroundings due to the obvious wealth that has been lavished on it.
>
The temple interior is dominated by dozens of statues of a grinning, dark-eyed woman with a scythe. Casks and painted jugs of wine are stacked along the walls. The temple is filled with a sweet fragrance.

The temple is maintained by a family of wine merchants, keen to promote the worship of Lutheria so as to serve their business interests in the city. The high priest is **Trellus** (LE **cult fanatic**), and he is served by six **cultists** in black robes. His sister and lover, **Septia** (CE **mage**), secretly plots to become queen of the city. The siblings officiate in ritual kidnappings and human sacrifices, performed every full moon, although they are careful not to kill anyone who might be missed.

### Admirers of the Horn
If the two discover that the heroes have the Horn of Balmytria, they will offer to buy it for 5,000 gp. If the heroes refuse, then they will secretly plot to kill the party and take it.

## Quest: The Missing Casks
Recently, several wine caravans that should have reached the temple have gone missing. The siblings believe that bandits are hiding out in the woods near the [[M23. The Vineyards of Mytros|Vineyards of Mytros (M23)]]. They offer 2,000 gp if the bandits can be delivered to them alive (for use in ritual sacrifices), or 1,000 gp for the bandits’ heads.

## Wine Cellar of Missing Children
The wine cellar of the Temple of Lutheria is a place of horrors. Trellus and Septia currently have thirteen children (NG **commoners**) locked away in the cellar, which Septia keeps warded with the *silence* spell.

The children's parents were sacrificed to Lutheria, and their bones are scattered throughout the cellar. The siblings intend to induct the children into their cult—and sacrifice those who resist. If the children are freed, they can be sent to Queen Vallus for protection.