>This marketplace is filled with bronze cages, which surround a central, raised platform. A rank barnyard odor assaults your senses. Over a dozen unwashed minotaurs have been locked within the cages. The minotaurs are physically fit but filthy, and many have fresh bruises and superficial cuts from battle.

In this market, minotaur slaves can be purchased for 100-250 gp each. There are usually a dozen specimens on display, all of which were recently captured.

There are three separate slave houses close to the market. Each is owned by a wealthy merchant who specializes in the sale of minotaurs. The minotaurs are kept in filthy conditions—no better than cattle pens.

##### Minotaurs In Mytros
The citizens of Mytros treat minotaurs as little more than livestock, using them as opponents to be slaughtered in the funeral games held to honour the recently deceased. This practice is mirrored and multiplied in the Great Games, which often require hundreds of the creatures. Although some minotaurs used in this manner are captured from tribes in the steppes, others are captively bred for the task. These “domesticated” minotaurs live almost universally in squalid conditions unfit for sentient creatures.

Queen Vallus has long sought to end this barbaric practice in the city, but King Acastus and the Order of Sydon have undermined her at every turn. There were a few centuries where minotaurs were merely outlawed from the city, but widespread smuggling and other skulduggery have ensured that the practice of slavery is alive and well.

The party may seek to liberate the minotaurs in the market, but it will cause chaos in this district and infuriate the Order of Sydon. The queen would strongly approve of such actions, but most of the district's citizens are cowards who prefer to maintain the status quo.

## Encounter: Bullbug the Minotaur
One of the minotaurs for sale is **Bullbug** (NG **minotaur hero**), a large fellow even by minotaur standards. Bullbug calls out to the heroes, asserting that he would make an excellent addition to their party. Despite the conditions in the market, he is confident and friendly.

## Maximus the Merciless
**Maximus** (LE **gladiator**) is the slave master who runs the Minotaur Market. He keeps order in the market with the aid of twelve **thugs**, and he heaps abuse upon the minotaurs. If any of the heroes are minotaurs and they pass through the market, he mistakes them for escaped slaves. In this case, he approaches the hero and attempts to shackle them, berating them for getting loose.

### Treasure
Maximus carries 750 gp in his coin purse. He also carries a permit which allows him to sell minotaurs, which was issued by Commander Gaius of the Order of Sydon. Technically, the permit allows him to transfer *oaths of service* to his customers, as outright slavery is officially outlawed in Mytros.

