>You come to a vast field with row upon row of grape vines. Although there are no obvious signs of caretakers, the vines are thriving, and fruit hangs heavy. The plant life surrounding the vineyard is healthy—but nowhere near as green and lush.

These vineyards are owned by a dozen mercantile families that live within the city. For centuries, these vineyards have been cared for by a tribe of **satyrs**.

## Encounter: The Fey Glade
>Following the road through the vineyards, you come to a wooded pass flanked by two large marble statues of leering nymphs. Passing between the statues, you enter a foggy dell carpeted by dead leaves and wild rose bushes. In the mist ahead, you hear the sounds of musical laughter and revelry. It seems that you’ve stumbled upon a glade of fey creatures.

This is where the caravans meant for the [[M20. Temple of Lutheria|Temple of Lutheria (M20)]] have gone. Satyrs have been waylaying the caravans and stockpiling wine casks in the glade. **Boreas** (NE **satyr minstrel**) is here, playing a gentle  tune upon his enchanted harp. He is accompanied by his brothers, three satyrs, who are drinking wine and entertaining a **dryad**. Boreas has permanently charmed a **water elemental**, which tends to the vineyards for him.

##### The Four Winds: Boreas
Kyrah recognizes Boreas as one of The Four Winds, a troupe of fey bards who broke into the Temple of the Five and stole her divine instruments. The Boreal harp is one such instrument. Recovering it by force will be a challenge. There is a 75% chance that the harp will be destroyed in the battle, leaving behind a set of nymph-hair strings.

### Keepers of the Vineyards
Boreas claims that the wine merchants struck a bargain with him years ago, for which he and his brothers were to be compensated in wine. The terms of payment were vague, but the satyrs interpreted it as one cask per month, as long as the vineyards of Mytros remain fruitful. They claim that they were the ones who enchanted the vineyards, centuries ago, ensuring that the vines would flourish.

### Trellus and Septia
The merchants, Trellus and Septia, are only humans with short memories, and they’ve broken the oath made by their ancestors. Boreas mocks the siblings, claiming that Lutheria will swallow their souls as punishment. He offers the heroes his Boreal harp if they will bring him the heads of the treacherous merchants. If the heroes comply, he will smash the harp before handing it over.