> The sprawling campus grounds of the Academy bustle with activity. Over a dozen impressive marble buildings stand in rows, connected by paved, well-maintained pathways. Rich green lawns stretch between the pathways, and scholars can be seen reading, writing, and hotly debating all manner of subjects.

The Academy is spread throughout more than a dozen buildings. This is one of the greatest centres of learning not just in Thylea but most likely in all the world.

*The Great Library* contains scrolls detailing knowledge on the flora and fauna of Thylea as well as information on topics such as metallurgy, alchemy, medicine, cartography, and almost any other imaginable subject.
 
*The Hall of Heroes* is devoted to recording the heroic exploits of Thylea’s heroes throughout the ages. Marble statues and busts of all of Thylea’s heroes can be found here as well as scrolls of their histories and songs.

*The Schools of the Arcane* consist of eight buildings devoted to the study of the eight schools of magic, each headed by an arcane master (LN **mages**).

*The Great Orrery* is a building that contains a replica of the many planes of existence, represented as celestial spheres fashioned from bronze clockwork.

*The Hall of Debate* provides a forum where any philosophy can be discussed without repercussions, even if it veers into the theological. Some of the greatest minds in Thylea can be found debating philosophy here:

• **Machaon** (CG half-orc **mage**)
• **Chalcodon** (LG elf **noble**)
• **Kerodotos** (NG gnome **priest**)
• **Atreus** (CN tiefling **captain**)

The Academy is well protected and if anyone is foolish enough to make trouble here, they will be quickly subdued by the arcane masters.

## Event: The Great Debates
The heroes are invited to participate in a series of philosophical debates at the Hall of Debate. Machaon, Chalcodon, Kerodotos, and Atreus all wish to test the intellectual mettle of the so-called "Saviours of Thylea." 

Each of the philosophers poses a paradoxical problem to the heroes and then awaits a response. There are no right answers to these puzzles: the philosophers want to see how the heroes behave in the debate. They will be impressed if the heroes take the exercise seriously. They will be disappointed if the heroes are sarcastic or silly in their responses.

### Machaon
The famed ship that brought the Dragonlord Adonis Neurdagon from the old lands to the lands of Thylea was the *Valorous*. The *Valorous* had sixty oars, a single mast, and a great prow. Over the centuries, it has decayed, and the Neurdagon family removed the old oars and planks, replacing it with newer and stronger timber. They replaced the mast when it was cracked in a storm, and they replaced the prow when the ship ran aground. After five centuries, every single piece of the *Valorous* has been replaced.

Is the *Valorous* now the same ship that once carried Adonis Neurdagon, or is she a different vessel?

### Chalcodon
Pythor is in a footrace with a tortoise. Pythor allows the tortoise a head start of 300 feet. If we suppose that each racer starts running at some constant speed (one very fast and one very slow), then after some finite time, Pythor will have run 300 feet, bringing him to the tortoise’s starting point. During this time, the tortoise has run a much shorter distance of only 30 feet. It will then take Pythor some further time to catch up to those additional 30 feet, by which time the tortoise will have moved even farther ahead. It takes more time for Pythor to reach the third point, while the tortoise continues to maintain his lead...

Thus, whenever Pythor arrives somewhere the tortoise has been, he still has some distance to go before he can catch the tortoise, despite running much faster. Clearly, this means that Pythor will never catch the tortoise. How do you explain this paradox?

### Kerodotos
A sphinx captures the young crown prince of Mytros. His mother comes to the sphinx and pleads for the return of her son. The sphinx replies that he will only return the prince safely if the mother can guess correctly whether or not he will indeed return the boy.

What is the problem here? As it turns out, there is no problem if the mother guesses that the sphinx will return him: if she is right, the boy is returned; if she is wrong, the sphinx keeps him.

However, if she answers that the sphinx will not return him, we end up with a paradox: if she is right and the sphinx never intended to return her child, then the sphinx has to return him, but in doing so, he breaks his word and contradicts the mother’s answer. On the other hand, if she is wrong and the sphinx actually did intend to return the boy, then the sphinx must keep him, even though he did not intend to do so, thereby also breaking his word.

### Atreus
What is the nature of good and evil? Are they metaphysical properties that can be measured or changed? For example, if a man commits murder, his neighbors may call him evil. We may rightly say that he has evil properties. Hoping to atone for his act, this man may offer to pay the victim’s family gold pieces to compensate for their loss. Now, let us say that the victim’s family is satisfied by the payment, and they forgive him, saying that he is no longer evil. The man had evil properties before he made the payment, but now he does not.

If properties of objects cannot be created or destroyed but merely transferred, where did the evil properties go? Are the coins now evil? Is the family evil?

### Reward
For participating in the debate, the four great philosophers award the heroes signed copies of their books: Machaon’s Paradoxia, Chalcodon’s Mathematika, Dialogues of Kerodotos, and Atreus’s Metaphysika. The books are worth 1 gp each, and each takes 1 day to read. Studying all four books grants proficiency in Arcana.