> The Great Agora serves as the heart of both the Noble District and Mytros itself. A multitude of vendors sell all kinds of goods from across the continent. Their stalls are protected from the elements by rows of narrow, roofed structures, supported by columns. Sprawled out beyond the Great Agora are a number of large private estates, bathhouses, and temples.

Huge marble roofed colonnades or stoa provide shelter from the sun and the weather here. Twelve-foot-tall statues of the Five watch from the edges of the Agora. A new statue of Sydon stands at its center, and it towers higher than any of the statues of the Five.

Merchants from all over Thylea gather here during the day to trade and to sell their wares. All manner of goods can be found here; from foodstuffs such as fish, meat, wine, cheese; to animals such as cows, goats, and sheep; to pottery, clothes, and bronze equipment.

## Grimmik's Armory
>This large shop stands in a prominent location in the Great Agora. The walls and racks are filled with many varieties of polished bronze weapons, armor, and tools.

This shop is run by **Grimmik** (NG **captain**), a retired centurion who sells adventuring gear and equipment. All non-magical weapons, armour, and tools from the 5th Edition *Player's Book* can be purchased here. He also has a single *mithral ingot* for sale, for 1,000 gp.

Grimmik is proud to have served the city of Mytros as a soldier, and he shows off several scars he earned in battles against the centaur tribes. He purchases all of his equipment from "a small workshop" in [[E9. Volkan’s Hall|Estoria (E9)]].

## Zorin's Concoctions
> This small shop is tucked away in a shady corner of the marketplace. The inside of the shop is dusty and dark, and the walls are stocked with bottles of all kinds.

This shop is run by **Zorin** (TN **mage**), a disgruntled alchemist who washed out of the [[M5. The Academy|Academy (M5)]]. He sells potions and lesser magic items.

Zorin spent years perfecting his potions, but all his teachers cared about were oratory skills. Unfortunately for him, he has a habit of insulting his audience in any long conversation. He opened his shop when it became clear that he had no future as a famous philosopher.

Zorin's Shop Inventory:

| Item                     | Cost     |
| ------------------------ | -------- |
| *potion of healing*      | 200 gp   |
| *potion of heroism*      | 200 gp   |
| *game fo twenty squares* | 800 gp   |
| *necklace of adaption*   | 1,000 gp |
| *periapt of health*      | 1,000 gp |
| *amulet, bull talisman*  | 2,000 gp |

## The Great Menagerie
> This shop is set up in a large tent at one of the stoas. Inside the tent, it seems darker and colder than it should be. Dozens of cages line the walls.

A hooded man introduces himself to the heroes as the **Collector** (LE **mage**). He travels throughout Thylea and collects exotic beasts and creatures. He offers to sell any of these creatures to interested heroes.

### Caged Animals
The cages hold a muzzled **lion**, a muzzled **cheetah**, a hooded **cockatrice**, a hooded **harpy**, a muzzled **brown bear**, a trussed up **goatling**, and a trussed up **young centaur**. The Collector offers to sell any of these creatures for a paltry sum of 100 gp, but he stresses that all sales are final.

With the exception of the young centaur, none of the creatures are trained. If released from their bonds, they will attack everyone around them. The young centaur will seek sanctuary at the Temple of Sydon.

### Treasure
There is a locked chest in the shop that contains 50 pp and the Collector’s spell book. The book contains all of the spells from the **mage** spell list. The chest can be opened with a successful **DC 15 Dexterity check** with thieves' tools.