> This beautiful bank doubles as a place of worship for Thylea, the Mother Goddess. The vault is sanctified by a circle of druids, who tend to a single great oak tree that grows from the central courtyard.

The bankers are elves who have devoted themselves to the Mother Goddess (TN **druids**). For a monthly fee of 1 gp, anyone can entrust their money, jewellery, gems, or other treasures to the bankers, who will store them in the network of tunnels beneath the huge oak tree.

##### Law and Order in Mytros
The laws of Mytros are primarily focused on how to punish someone who has been convicted of a crime. Jury trials determine whether a crime has been committed.

***Debts***. If someone is delinquent in paying a debt, they have one week to pay it. After that, the debtor may be brought before the court forcibly. Unless the debtor pays the amount owed, the debtor is forced to serve the person he owes for a period of one day for every gold piece owed until the debt is paid.

***Capital Offenses***. Murder, bribery of a court official, and treason are punishable by death by “the Dragon.” This is also the fate of anyone convicted of burning a building within the city (or on the outlying farms and settlements).

Theft and assault are all punished by enslavement as an oarsman aboard a ship chosen by the courts for a period no less than one year, up to a life sentence. The guilty party may choose death by “the Dragon” instead. 

***The Dragon***. This is an ancient chimera that is kept imprisoned in a cavern below the courts. Two of its heads are muzzled, so it will only use its dragon fire on a victim tossed down to it for punishment.