# The Current Situation

The Oracle, [[Versi the Oracle|Versi]], has been trapped in a cave below the temple for two weeks. After learning of Versi’s most recent prophecy, the Lord of Storms decided to punish his daughter for her insubordination. Sydon sent a [[sea-hag|Sea Hag]] named Heleka to bring Versi back to his tower in the Forgotten Sea. Like all hags, Heleka is utterly evil. She is taking immense pleasure from tormenting the naiad, but Sydon has forbidden her from physically harming Versi.
Meanwhile, Gaius, the Commander of the Order of Sydon, has learned that the heroes have come to meet with the Oracle. He has personally ordered a detachment of soldiers to kill the heroes before they can even have a chance to become famous enough to challenge the powers that rule Thylea. The soldiers are led by a priest named Braeca (LE [[acolyte|Acolyte]]), and they have been ordered to kill the heroes on sight.

[[Temple of the Oralce.canvas|Temple of the Oracle Map]]

# THE ORACLE’S PROPHECY

Once the Oracle has been rescued from the sea hag, she thanks the heroes and introduces herself. Centuries ago, she foresaw the coming of great warriors who would save Thylea in her hour of need.

Now, Versi delivers the full prophecy to those in attendance.

>The Oracle inhales the vaporous fumes that surround her. She stares into each of your eyes, probing your souls with her penetrating gaze. Some time passes before she speaks.
>
“You warriors who stand here gathered will be tested. The Fates have revealed three great tasks that must be accomplished before you are ready to sail into the three seas and face the Titans.”
>
“You must shape the silver fires of the lost forge in order to craft the tools that you will need. You must claim the mighty weapons wielded against the Titans by the first Dragonlord. And you must drink deep from the bottomless dragon horn, for it will reveal a vision that I cannot see.”
>
>“But woe unto thee, for I have seen the end of all things. My father’s anger cannot be quelled, and his sister schemes even now. Your quest may yet fail and, if it should, the sky will rain black fire, and the doom of Thylea will come.”

With the Oracle’s full prophecy delivered, it’s time for the heroes to undertake three great tasks. But first, she will speak with each hero, revealing specific information about each of their epic paths.

### Alexios the Doomed One:

> "Shadow and darkness swirl around your past and cloud your future. Shrouded in mystery and sorrow.  Your destiny lurks out of my sight. Demetria, my sister, a thread connects you. Seek her out for she has answers I can not provide. the Oldwood is where she resides seek ger out but be careful."

### Raxus the Dragonslayer
> Vengeance, blood, and glory all mingle in the path ahead for you. To right the wrong that was done to you and yours, you must seek out the one trapped in the fires of the great forge. She can provide insight into the weapon that is meant to slay the setting sun.

### Plaedon and Faedon
>Children of nature, one born of the stone, one born of the river. Your dreams of ride the skies aback the dragons. A new flight on the horizon, I see. 
>At first I was not sure. But yes. Kin. Yes, I see it now. So intertwined our threads are we can only be kin. There it is, the intersection. My father, the lord of storms, once loved a mortal sorceress. She was your grandmother. My father's sister-wife, Lutheria, convinced him to murder his mortal lover, however. You must avenge her, and in doing so, her spirit shall guide you to your great destiny.
>Here, this belongs to you. A memento she left for you both. 

She reaches into a chest and pulls a locket and snaps the claps in two. She puts one half on one chain and the other on another

### Mona
>Such pressure. Crushing expectations on the "child of destiny". You gave up much to carve out a path of your own, though you may not know it. You are yet to find peace I suspect. The ghosts of your past cling to you. Phantoms draining your life force. You  may save yourself. Seek out my sister, like you shrouded friend., Her servants have delivered to her a relic that is connected to you. Yes I see the thread now, a relic stolen from your family it seems. 

