The heroes have rescued the Oracle from the clutches of a hag and cemented their place as the subjects of her prophecy. Now, it seems that the party must perform three mighty tasks in order to prepare themselves for a confrontation with the Titans, Sydon and Lutheria.

Both Proteus and Kyrah are capable of interpreting the Oracle’s vision. Proteus has extensive knowledge of Thylea’s geography and culture, but he believes that these tasks may truly be impossible. Kyrah is more likely to prod the party into action—she’s eager for an exciting story to inspire her poetry.

# 1. Claim the Weapons of the Dragonlords

The weapons of the first Dragonlords were forged at the Mithral Forge by the god Volkan, and all were capable of wounding the Titans and those descended from them. These are located in Telamok, a necropolis in the Mithral Mountains. The tombs were built to house the remains of the Dragonlords who came to Thylea five centuries ago. No one ever goes there now, as it’s guarded by an undead gatekeeper known as Damon, who must be paid with a special kind of coin before he will allow anyone entrance. Proteus gives the heroes one burnished dragonlord coin and tells them to keep it safe.

# 2. Light the First of the Mithral Forge

The Mithral Forge was used by the dwarves to construct the weapons of the gods in the First War. The Forge can be used to build powerful magical items or repair ancient magical items that no longer work. Kyrah suggests that the party travel to the city of Estoria. A clan of dwarves works the local copper mines, and they are likely to know more about the Forge’s whereabouts.

# 3. Drink from the Horn of Balmytria

The Horn of Balmytria is an actual dragon horn that a famed silver dragon lost in battle against the gygans. It was recovered by the priests of Mytros and consecrated by the Five. It reputedly has many magical powers including the ability to grant visions to those who drink from it. The horn was stowed in a reliquary in the city of Estoria and, as far as anyone knows, it’s still there.

If the heroes ask about the “three seas” Kyrah will explain that it almost certainly refers to the Cerulean Gulf, the Forgotten Sea, and the legendary Nether Sea.