The party should choose one of the three Labours before leaving the temple. Kyrah volunteers to serve as a guide and traveling companion. She won’t take no for an answer. She recommends traveling to Estoria first, because the Horn of Balmytria should be there, on display at the Dragon Shrine (E7). She also gives the heroes the golden arrows that she promised as a reward.

Parting Gifts. Before the party leaves the temple, Proteus intercepts the heroes and thanks them for saving Versi from the clutches of the sea hag. He is sceptical that any of these so-called ‘Great Labours’ may be accomplished by mortals, but he believes that Thylea desperately needs heroes who are willing to try. He gives each of the heroes one *potion of healing* and takes his leave of the party with encouraging words:

> “The future of Thylea may be bleak, but there is always hope. The people of this land will look to your actions as a sign of things to come. Seek neither fame nor fortune, but show them the true meaning of heroism. Make yourselves a beacon of light as we enter this time of darkness, and go with the blessing of this temple.”


# Kyrah's Advice: Winning Fame

After Proteus has departed, Kyrah offers the heroes another take on the tasks ahead.

>"Listen to me — forget what Proteus said. This is your chance to win fame beyond your wildest dreams. You want fame, right? Of course you do. All great heroes want fame. Fame is the path to immortality."
>
>"These 'Great Labours' are only the beginning. The path ahead of you will be filled with opportunities for winning fame. If you truly manage to rise to your fate and confront the Titans, then poets will sing of your deeds for ages to come."


This is a good time to introduce the concept of Fame to your players. Each time the heroes complete a quest or perform a great deed, they earn Fame. As the party's Fame increases, they unlock perks. See the Benefits of Fame table in the Creating Heroes appendix for details. Kyrah also signals that she will be following the heroes and watching over them, with the intention of composing an epic poem about their exploits.

Epic Poetry Battle. If the party already has a bard who wishes to serve as an epic poet, then Kyrah offers them a challenge: the two of them will compose separate epics, and when the quest is done, they will each read their poem aloud at the Theatre of the Gods in Mytros to see which version of the story gets the most applause.

# The Oath of Fellowship

Finally, Kyrah offers one last suggestion before the party continues onward.

>"There is one tiny problem, though. The tricky thing about fame is, if you're not careful, one hero might outshine all the others. Then all the stories will be about that one hero and how strong and valiant they are — and all the rest of you will be yesterday's news."
>
>"So... I encourage you to swear an Oath of Fellowship. This is a sacred oath that will bind you together in the spirit of solidarity. When one of you wins fame, all of you will share it. And, who knows? Perhaps the magic of the oath will even protect you against some of the dangers that lie ahead."

If the heroes elect to swear the oath, then your players should each read the following aloud:
>"I am (name), and I swear upon my life and my honour that I will uphold the oath of fellowship with the warriors who stand at my side."

They toast to celebrate their unity.