King Acastus has learned that the Heroes of the Prophecy have completed the first of their Great Labours. He has dispatched seven of his most loyal centurions to find the heroes and bring them before his throne, and the people of the great city of Mytros eagerly await the arrival of the famed heroes. Tales of their great exploits already circulate in every tavern: it is even rumoured that they travel in the company of the gods!

> In the distant skies, you can make out three winged forms approaching you. The sun shimmers off their scales, and you realize that they are young copper dragons. You have heard rumours of the dragons of Mytros, but these creatures are far more splendid than you imagined. The dragons are ridden by red-cloaked knights: high ranking centurions from the city. The dragons descend and touch down several dozen yards away. 
> 
> Three knights with shields and swords dismount and approach you. The determined look in their eyes suggests that they have been sent here with a mission but they clearly mean you no harm. Their leader steps forward and introduces himself, “I am Tarchon. We have come on behalf of King Acastus to escort you to his palace. He wishes an audience with you.”

**Tarchon** (NG *captain*) is accompanied by two other **captains**. They are mounted on **young copper dragons**. He explains that the Lord of Storms has waylaid the city of Mytros with a devastating hurricane. King Acastus expects the heroes to come to the city’s aid at once

Tarchon and his men have been ordered not to return without the heroes. However, they won’t attack the party, even if provoked. If the heroes refuse to come with him, Tarchon will appeal to the party’s sense of honour and duty. He also confesses that Acastus is not a forgiving king; if the knights return empty-handed, he will be punished.

Tarchon is one of a burgeoning order of dragon-mounted soldiers commanded by the king. They call themselves Dragonlords, after the king’s ancestors. Kyrah and the other gods are dismissive of this new order, calling it an exercise in pure vanity.

# Travelling to Mytros
Traveling to Mytros takes about one day from most of the outer reaches of the Heartlands. You may choose to run one random land encounter during this time. If Tarchon and his men are present, they will leave all the dangerous work to the heroes. They have no wish to risk harm to their dragons.

## The Royal Gate
This massive gate can be accessed from the paved road that snakes up the hillside. The road is wide enough to accommodate traffic moving in both directions. The towers that flank the gate are carved to represent the writhing forms of dozens of dragons.

> As you approach the city of Mytros, you are reminded of its immense scale. Its walls and temples sprawl across the foundations of Mount Volkan, and its great harbour stretches for miles across the coast. This is the jewel of Thylea: the bastion of mortal civilization.
>
But something is wrong. Massive, swirling black clouds loom over the city, the wind battering its ships and tearing at its banners. Howling gales greet you as your draw closer to the city gates, and it becomes difficult just to put one foot in front of another. The centurions at the Royal Gate urgently beckon you into the city as torrential rain hammers down.
>
Glancing up into the sky, you notice that something ominous has materialized within the spinning eye of the hurricane. It’s the scowling visage of Sydon, Lord of Storms. His angry eyes rove the city, until they abruptly lock onto your exact position. The titan conjures a crackling white bolt of lightning and hurls it at you.

Have the heroes roll for initiative. Whoever rolls the lowest is immediately struck by the bolt of lightning, which hits with the same effects as a *lightning bolt* spell.

The chosen hero still gets a saving throw versus the spell. You may choose to have Sydon throw a second bolt at the hero with the second lowest initiative. After the lightning strikes, the storm continues, but Sydon’s face can no longer be seen in the clouds.

## The Great Palace
Now that the heroes are in the city, Tarchon escorts them straight to the Great Palace, preventing them from stopping along the way. He explains that once the king’s dilemma has been resolved, the party will be free to wander and explore the palace and city.

# The Throne Room
[[Acastus|King Acastus]] (see appendix) can be found here during the day. The king is always protected by seven of his best **centurions** (LG *captains*). He is usually accompanied by his concubine **Bella** (CN *noble*). He frequently calls upon the services of [[Commander Gaius]] (see appendix), who represents the Order of Sydon within the city.

> Centurions escort you through marble colonnades of the palace and into the Royal Hall, where the king waits. Rain hammers loudly upon the palace roof and, as you enter the throne room, an ear-splitting crack of thunder rolls across the sky.
>
A middle-aged man with a powerful build sits on a gilded throne opposite the entrance. On the step below him are four others: a beautiful ageless woman of regal bearing, a soldier dressed in a cerulean cloak, a tiefling wearing a black robe, and a finely-dressed young woman. Centurions stand at attention along the walls of the room.

## The Kings Dilemma

> The king beams on seeing you. “Here they are—the Heroes of the Heartlands. Welcome, honoured guests! You have come not a moment too soon. I am in desperate need of your counsel. As you may have noticed,  our beautiful city is besieged by evil weather. We have wasted several days discussing how best to placate the Lord of Storms, but my advisors cannot seem to agree upon anything.
>
“The Oracle’s prophecy has angered Sydon. That much is clear. You are the ones who were foretold to confront the Titans and restore balance to Thylea. Therefore, I have decided that you must be the ones to decide how we resolve this crisis.”

[[Acastus|King Acastus]] and [[Vallus|Queen Vallus]] (see appendix) are accompanied by [[Commander Gaius|Gaius]] and **Bella**. The tiefling calls himself [[Chondrus]] (see appendix). He is an emissary from the Cult of Lutheria and the king dislikes him. He cannot be ignored, however, because he represents powerful interests within the city.

King Acastus is charming but arrogant. He will introduce the other characters (including his wife, the queen) in the throne room with polite condescension. Each character present has a different opinion on how to handle the crisis, and each states their preferred course of action. The heroes are then expected to decide what should be done.

## Four Possible Solutions

Secretly, Acastus knows that every possible course of action will be considered controversial by the people of Mytros, and he does not want to be held responsible for any consequences. He wants the heroes to make the decision, so that they will be blamed rather than him. 

In summary, here are the options that the heroes must choose from:

• Cast the 8th level spell *control weather*.
• Order the destruction of the Temple of the Five.
• Purchase 10,000 gp worth of livestock to sacrifice.
• Convince the gods to work a miracle.

Whichever solution the heroes choose, the king will order it done immediately. If the chosen action is successful, Sydon will be appeased or his magic will be countered. In either case, the storms will pass.

### Option 1: King Acastus
First, the king wonders whether the heroes can **stop the storm with magic**. He has heard that there are powerful spells that may be used to alter the weather. Surely if the rumours about the heroes are true, then they should be mighty enough to command such magic?

When it becomes clear that the heroes cannot use magic, the king feigns disappointment. If the heroes chose not to sacrifice the great boar to Sydon earlier in the story, Acastus may also wonder aloud at their wisdom in making such a decision.

##### Controlling the Weather
Acastus refers to the 8th level spell control weather, which the heroes probably cannot cast. However, if the party has collected two sets of *nymph-hair strings*, then they can craft the *Boreal harp* at the *Mithral Forge*. In this case, a bard will be capable of casting the spell, but Acastus is impatient, so the harp must have been created before they answer the summons to Mytros.

### Option 2: Commander Gaius
Gaius angrily demands that the king **dismantle the Temple of the Five** and smash every stone to dust. Sydon abhors the worship of other gods, and especially worship of the Five. Gaius has argued for decades that the Temple of the Five should be destroyed, but the idea has recently gained some popular support. If Gaius is to be believed, smashing the temple is the only way to appease the Lord of Storms.

Gaius is also contemptuous of both the heroes and Queen Vallus. She is, after all, one of the Five Gods and the daughter of the patron god of the city. As the commander of the Order of Sydon, Gaius believes that the city must abandon its worship of the Five, and stop putting any faith in these “puppets of the Oracle.”

##### Destroying the Temple
If the heroes choose to order the destruction of the Temple of the Five, then the gods will grudgingly accept this course of action. Vallus and Kyrah have long believed that it was inevitable that their power would wane and that the people of Mytros would lose faith, but they had hoped that it would not happen in such a fashion. However, this loss of worship still causes pain to the Five.

As a result of the temple’s destruction, Kyrah, Vallus, Pythor, and Volkan will become dispirited and suffer one level of permanent exhaustion.

### Option 3: Chondrus
Chondrus argues that Sydon can only be placated by the intervention of Lutheria, his sister-wife. To gain her help the king should **order seventy children of the city to “take the black robes”** and dedicate themselves to the Cult of Lutheria. He promises that the Lady of Dreams will treat the children well—they will eat the finest of foods and drink the sweetest of wines.

In fact, they will all be sacrificed in the cult’s perverse blood rituals. Everyone suspects this and hates the suggestion. Queen Vallus would have Chondrus killed before she would allow it to happen.

##### Keeper of the Great Library
Chondrus appears later in the adventure on the Island of Yonder. He hopes to convince the heroes to bargain with Lutheria. If the heroes manage to turn the king against him, he will use dimension door to escape back to his lair.

### Option 4: Bella the Concubine
In normal circumstances, Bella should have no voice in this matter, but the king indulges her. She innocently asks why the usual solution has not been tried. Normally, the priests of Sydon sacrifice dozens of animals to placate the storm god. Acastus explains that for a storm like this one, they would need to **perform a hecatomb, a sacrifice of 100 oxen**. This would require half the livestock in the city, and it would cost about 10,000 gp. Perhaps the heroes might pay the cost? The royal coffers cannot afford such an expense...

### Option 5: Queen Vallus
>Queen Vallus suddenly stands up from her throne and approaches you directly, ignoring the protests of the king. She radiates a sense of profound intellect and divine beauty.
>
>“Heroes of the Prophecy, I greet you. I am Vallus, of the Five Gods. For centuries, the people of Mytros have revered me as the goddess of wisdom. Mortal kings once travelled from across the Cerulean Gulf seeking my counsel but, as you can see, my husband prefers to consult with fools and concubines. 
>
>“We gods are capable of saving the city. Joined together, the four of us can weave a spell to counter Sydon’s magic. Such a miracle will require a sacrifice of our power. I will do what must be done to protect my city, but the others will need to be persuaded. 
>
>“I have summoned Kyrah, Pythor, and Volkan to the palace so that you might speak with them and make them see reason. You are the Oracle’s chosen. They will heed your words.”

Vallus wants the heroes to **convince Pythor, Kyrah, and Volkan to help her work a miracle**. This depends on the heroes’ ability to convince the other three gods to surrender a portion of their power to protect the city from Sydon’s magic. Working the miracle will cause the gods to suffer **one level of permanent exhaustion**, but it will bolster the city’s faith in the Five Gods.

##### Performing a Miracle
If the heroes choose this course of action, then Vallus calls Kyrah, Pythor, and Volkan into the throne room. The heroes must succeed on a **DC 16 Charisma (Persuasion) check**. Alternatively, you can simply roleplay this encounter by having each hero make a separate plea to the gods.

If the gods are convinced, then they will vow to protect the city. They thank the heroes for their wisdom and go to the Temple of the Five to seek the guidance of Mytros.

# The Storms Vanish

> Hours pass, and the storm gradually relents. Light breaks through the breaking clouds, spilling down onto the marble pediments and wet paving stones of the city. Slowly, citizens begin to emerge from their homes. Before long, the usual bustle of everyday life in Mytros resumes. 
>
King Acastus looks pleased. “Excellent work! I knew I could trust you to handle this matter. Now, let’s see about your reward…” He pulls a rolled parchment out of his cloak and hands it to you.
>
“This map will lead you to the last known whereabouts of the Ultros. It was my ancestor’s ship, the legendary vessel of Estor Arkelander, fiercest of the Dragonlords. There was a time when I thought I might claim it for myself, but I have no need of it now.”
>
“You should know that I am rebuilding the ancient order of the Dragonlords. In time, I will have a legion of dragon-mounted warriors under my command. Then we will have no more need of heroes and Oracles. We shall drive back the Titans with the power of the dragons, just as my forefathers did.”
>
“In any case, this map will allow you to resume your so-called ‘Great Labours.’ I thank you for the service you have done my city. You are dismissed.”

The king rewards the heroes with the map to the Ultros, which was last seen near the Dead Falls.

Acastus encourages the heroes to leave his city as soon as possible, because their fame has begun to overshadow his own. Secretly, he will pray to Sydon that his bloodthirsty undead ancestor will kill the heroes and put an end to their glory-hogging ways.

If the heroes ask why they must recover the Ultros instead of sailing some other ship, Acastus explains, truthfully, that the wrath of Sydon makes travel beyond he coast nearly impossible. They will need a legendary ship if they are to survive the journey.

##### The King's Motives
As a descendant of the Dragonlords, Acastus feels as though he will never live up to the legends of his ancestors. The ghost of Estor Arkelander taunts the king in his dreams, promising him fame, glory, and immortality. However, the king knows that his ancestor has treacherous designs. Estor seeks to possess a living host so that he may wreak vengeance upon the Titans. Acastus is sending the heroes to the Ultros, hoping to kill two birds with one stone.

# Summoned by the Queen
Before the heroes leave the Great Palace, Queen Vallus sends her chief stewardess, Makhaira, to intercept them as they are leaving the throne room. Makhaira escorts the heroes to see the queen in her chambers.

## The Queen’s Chambers
When the heroes arrive, Queen Vallus is resting on a divan across from a series of gilded mirrors. She is accompanied by many scribes and servants in white. While Acastus is off playing king, Vallus works hard behind closed doors, performing the many necessary duties of a true head of state.

##### The Queen's Warriors
The queen’s chief stewardess is **Makhaila** (LG *amazon warrior*), who commands twelve **amazon warriors**. Makhaira was exiled from Themis by Queen Thesilea VI and came to Mytros ten years ago. She is fiercely loyal to Queen Vallus

## The Queen’s Warning
Vallus explains that her husband has not been entirely honest with the party. The map to the Ultros is accurate, but the king is almost certainly sending the heroes to their doom. She knows that Acastus has been troubled in his sleep by dreams of some kind, and she thinks that his unusual generosity is somehow connected to this. He would never give the heroes such a gift unless he believed that it would work to his advantage. 

Vallus insists that when the heroes have acquired the Ultros, they should return to her immediately. She is certain that her 'stupid husband' will try to take the ship. She feels that nothing good can come of Acastus controlling both the ship and the dragons.

### Conflicts in the City
Vallus also explains that there are deep conflicts within the city between the followers of the Five and the followers of the Titans. She has some suspicions about what the Titans want. You can decide if your players need to hear anything of the history of the Titans at this point, or whether this would only muddy the waters for them. She is desperately worried that, at the time when the Oath of Peace ends, the powers of the Five Gods will be fully spent. If Pythor or Kyrah are present, she will also be concerned for them, and will make a point of asking after the health of Volkan, her father.

### Quest: The Cult of Lutheria
This quest is optional, depending upon whether or not you want the party to explore Mytros before they set out on their quest to recover the *Ultros*.

Vallus asks the heroes for a favour. Sydon may have been pacified this time, but the Titans should pay a price for their cruelty and impudence. While attacking the Temple of Sydon would be too much of a provocation, the Cult of Lutheria is gaining a dangerous amount of influence in the city. Vallus asks the heroes to help the city by striking a blow against the cult.

The queen suggests that the heroes should investigate the [[M20. Temple of Lutheria|Temple of Lutheria (M20) ]]in *Stygian Row*. This is not an invitation to cause chaos in the lower city—the heroes should approach this carefully and collect evidence against them if possible. The Cult is popular because it supplies the city with much of its wine.

### One Final Warning
Before the heroes leave, Vallus repeats her warning about Acastus: the king does not need to know when the party has recovered the Ultros.

##### The Blessing of Vallus
If the heroes sacrificed the great boar to Vallus, she will reluctantly thank them but she doesn’t understands why they did so. Most such offerings are made to her mother, Mytros. She is appreciative, however, and she grants the heroes her blessing before they leave.

## Encounter: The King’s Dragon
The king’s dragon, **Icarus** (CN *adult silver dragon*), is loudly snoring in the main courtyard of the *Great Palace*, lying atop a small fortune’s worth of silver coins. The king happily allows him to sleep here. The dragon is attended by seven servants, who have been ordered to pamper him with new trinkets and freshly-slaughtered sheep each day.

The heroes may talk to the dragon if they wish, but it will quickly become evident that he’s spoiled rotten and completely self-absorbed. Icarus knows little of what is happening in Thylea, and he cares even less.

##### Icarus the Adolescent
Although Icarus has the body of an adult dragon, he has the callow mind of a twenty year-old wyrmling. Gaius’s silver dragon, Argyn, is the same. Twenty years ago, when Acastus became King of Mytros, Lutheria gave him several dragon eggs, along with potions of aging to feed the dragons in order to accelerate their growth. Both Icarus and Argyn were hatched and raised in this way.

### Treasure
The dragon’s treasure pile contains 20,000 sp. He will awaken immediately if even a single coin is touched, but his first instinct is not to be angry. He likes it when people admire his treasure, and he will allow each hero to take as much as 25 sp, because he likes to feel generous and lordly. However, if the heroes attempt to take more than the few coins he allows them, he will grow annoyed and call for guards to escort them away.

# Exploring the City
Now that the heroes have solved the king’s dilemma and learned of the whereabouts of the *Ultros*, they are free to explore Mytros. They can attempt to recover the Ultros, participate in the Great Games, or investigate other strange events in the city.

As the heroes exit the palace, they begin to realize that their fame precedes them.

## Encounter: Your Adoring Fans
> As you leave the palace, you realize that people everywhere are watching you with great interest. You hear excited chatter among the crowds. “It’s the Oracle's chosen ones, the heroes of the Heartlands! They’ve come to Mytros to save us from the Titans!”
> 
> Several merchants approach you, expressing gratitude for the work you’ve done to make the roads safer to travel. Detachments of centurions salute as you walk past. As news of your presence spreads, more and more admirers crowd around you, vying for your attention. Before long, your progress through the city streets has slowed to a crawl.

## Continuing the Story
Now that the heroes have a map to the Ultros, they may choose to attempt the next Great Labour. In this case, run The *Ghost Ship Ultros* adventure.

Or the heroes may choose to investigate strange happenings in the city, in which case, they should ask around for rumours about the Cult of the Snake. This will lead to the adventures in *The Colossus of Pythor* section. With the storms gone, you might decide that it’s time for a celebration in the city. Refer to *The Great Games* section to give the party a break from dungeon crawling.