Founded five centuries ago, Mytros is named after the matriarch of the Five Gods—the Goddess of Dawn, who is also called the 'Silver Queen.' She is the patron goddess of the city, although her influence has waned somewhat in recent centuries.

The city was built around a natural harbour, where  trade ships arrive with goods from the distant city of Aresia. Two great bronze colossi once guarded the harbour, but only one of them is still standing. The city's silhouette is dominated by several massive temples.

as far as the Mithral Mountains and the Oldwoods. These two hills are where the most important buildings are located. One hill is the religious and political centre of the city, while the other hill is its mercantile centre. Between the hills are slums known as Stygian Row. Behind the city is Mount Volkan, an extinct volcano named after the husband of Mytros.

Mytros is mostly a beautiful and clean city. The streets are cleaned every night, and the citizens frown upon those who allow their mounts to defecate in the streets. The city houses close to 50,000 people and, although the majority of the population are human, Mytros is the most diverse city in Thylea, with every race represented.

Many of the greatest structures in the city are built entirely from marble, inlaid with bronze, adorned with painted tiles and beautiful mosaics. During the day, the heat of the sun can make the city seem like a mirage, as the air shimmers and the buildings glitter from the reflected sunlight. Great walls surround and protect the city, with only two major entry points—the Royal Gate and the Commerce Gate.

# Factions in Mytros
Mytros is not a united city. A number of factions compete for influence over the citizenry.

## Queen Vallus
Vallus has been the queen of Mytros for centuries, but she is far removed from her people. As the goddess of wisdom, she is viewed as the natural successor to Mytros, her mother, and her right to rule is affirmed by the Temple of the Five. However, as the Oath of Peace fails, faith in the Five Gods has waned, and people are growing restless with anxiety about the Titans.

## King Acastus
Acastus has been the king of Mytros ever since he persuaded Vallus to marry him, some twenty years ago. He is extremely popular in the city, especially since he obtained a huge silver dragon. The blood of Estor Arkelander flows in his veins, and many view him as the successor of the ancient Dragonlords. Most believe him to be a strong and wise ruler, or else why would Vallus have married him?

## The Order of Sydon
The Order of Sydon are devout worshippers of the Lord of Storms. Although the Titan sent hurricanes to punish the city for its faith in the Five Gods, a surprising number of people worship him and support the Order. Commander Gaius is often seen flying over the city on his silver dragon, and he’s a popular figure with young men and women who dream of joining the Order.

## The Cult of the Snake
The Cult of the Snake are known for their abiding loyalty to a mysterious figure called the Lady of Coins. Those who displease the Lady are often found turned to stone, with a green snake painted on a nearby wall. The Cult of the Snake is actually a thieves’ guild, and hence its influence is covert rather than open. Most of the thieves in the city are loyal to the Lady.

## The Cult of Lutheria
The Cult of Lutheria is the oldest cult in Mytros. The cultists are unabashed worshippers of the Lady of Dreams. Most people find their beliefs and rituals to be repugnant, but they are tolerated because they provide wine and entertainment for the popular wine festivals. In truth, they would have been ejected from the city a long time ago, except that they have “friends in high places”—devotees among the aristocracy.

# Events in Mytros
These are events that can occur in Mytros while the heroes are exploring the city.

## Event: The Great Games
> You hear the sound of a runner's footsteps coming from behind you. Before you can react, the source of the noise dashes past you: a lithe young man carrying a torch. He runs for another block before handing the flame to another runner, who immediately takes off in the same direction. The first runner’s friends gather around him and congratulate him. Laughter and excited shouting fill the air.
> 
> "The Great Games are beginning!"

The Great Games begin when the pyre is lit beneath the ruins of the [[M15. The Ruined Colossus|Colossus of Mytros (M15).]] Some people in the street notice the heroes looking at the torch bearer. They cheerfully explain that anyone, even great heroes, can enter the Games. If the heroes wish to enter, then refer to *The Great Games* section.

## Event: The Funeral Sacrifice
> You stumble upon a melancholy scene. Dozens of figures dressed in black robes march sombrely down the street in an orderly procession. Mourners line the street: wailing spouses, dumbstruck children, and resigned elders look on. A large bronze cage is held aloft towards the front of the procession. Inside the cage is a shackled minotaur.

This is a funeral procession for a dozen centurions killed fighting the centaur tribes on the borders of civilization. The women wail in an ostentatious display of grief for the dead while children look on dumbstruck and slightly scared by the caged beast.

The caged **minotaur** is for a ritual battle before the funeral. Most citizens of Mytros consider minotaurs to be murderous brutes, fit only for use in games and rituals. They are sometimes captured by slavers and forced into oaths of servitude. Once they've been exhausted by years of forced labour, they are entered into gladiatorial games, where most of them are eventually slaughtered. Refer to the [[M21. The Minotaur Market|Minotaur Market (M21)]] for details about this dark stain on the culture of the city.

The procession stops just outside of the [[M6. The Royal Gate|Royal Gate (M6)]], where a group of pyres has been lit for the dead soldiers. Nearby, a walled pen has been constructed for the funerary games. A group of three **soldiers**, family members of the deceased, will be chosen to fight the minotaur. A **priest** of Sydon announces that the sacrifice of the minotaur is a blessing for the dead.

### Ritual Combat
The soldiers fight the unarmed minotaur to the death. As long as the heroes do not interfere, one of the soldiers will be badly injured but the minotaur will be defeated and killed. Intervening on the side of the minotaur will earn the heroes sour looks and suspicious gossip among the superstitious citizenry.

### Optional Event: Bullbug
You can replace the minotaur with **Bullbug** (NG *minotaur hero*). Bullbug easily defeats the soldiers, but he refuses to kill them. Now freed, he calls out a friendly challenge to the heroes. If one of the heroes can beat Bullbug, he will offer to join their crew.

## Event: Statues of Terror
> A small group of people gathers on the road nearby. The object of their interest is easily spotted. It is an incredibly lifelike statue of a woman that has suddenly appeared in the middle of the city street. The statue has a look of abject terror on its face.

The gathered citizens will agree that the statue is remarkably lifelike, but none of them recall having seen it before. Centurions arrive within minutes and ask everyone to clear away. The centurions explain that this looks like the work of the Lady of Coins, as though the heroes should know exactly what that means. 

If the heroes express interest, the centurions tell the heroes to speak with the powerful merchant, Lord Taran. He has publicly called for the Lady of Coins to be brought to justice. The centurions are mildly surprised that he is still alive. Lord Taran can be found at his villa on the [[M11. The Neurdagon Estate|Neurdagon Estate (M11)]].

# Random Encounters
These encounters are an easy way to add colour to the city. Roll on the following chart whenever you want something unusual to happen in the city.

| d20   | Encounter                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| ----- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| 1-2   | A lost-looking warrior monk from Aresia asks you for directions to the Colosseum. He intends to participate in the Great Games.                                                                                    |
| 3-4   | Two young **acolytes** in gray togas ask you for a donation to the Temple of the Five. A passing **captain** from the Order of Sydon shoves them to the ground and spits on them.                                  |
| 5-6   | Several young children carrying wooden pikes and shields scurry up to you. "Are you Dragonlords? You don't look so tough to me!"                                                                                   |
| 7-8   | A band of **satyrs** playing harps and flutes begin to sing songs about you as you pass The songs at first seem flattering, but you start to think they're making fun of you.                                      |
| 9-10  | Seven **cultists** are roasting spitted pigs over a bronze bier. They offer free pork and wine to passers-by. "Compliments of the Temple of Lutheria. All hail the Lady of Dreams!"                                |
| 11-12 | Suddenly, a copper coin smacks you in the forehead. You hear a bleating laugh from the rooftops. A single **goatling** grins down at you. "Keep the change, little starveling!"                                    |
| 13-14 | Dozens of hoplites in bronze armor march past you. They seem to be heading for the city gates, perhaps to reinforce the outlying settlements. "For the glory of Mytros!"                                           |
| 15-16 | A portly herald in a white toga stands on a pedestal. He speaks in a booming voice, announcing news to a crowd that has gathered to listen. (Loudly read 2-3 rumors).                                              |
| 17-18 | A crowd of angry citizens are throwing rotten fruit at a fettered philosopher. She stands accused of slandering King Acastus. "Shame on you for besmirching the name of the king!"                                 |
| 19-20 | A winged siren messenger glides overhead and lands nearby, singing happily. She delivers a message to an old woman, who immediately breaks down into tears at the terrible news. The siren giggles and flies away. |
# Rumours in Mytros
Mytros is the centre of trade in Thylea, and so it is a place where rumours from all corners of the land can be heard. These rumours might be overheard on the streets, in marketplaces, or in taverns:

| d12 | Rumour                                                                                                                                                                               |
| --- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| 1   | The Order of Sydon has demanded that the statues of the Five in the Great Agora be knocked down. King Acastus has refused them, for now.                                             |
| 2   | The Great Games will be starting soon. Aresia has sent its best team in years and might embarrass Mytros. Even stranger, the Amazons of Themis have sent a delegation to the Games.  |
| 3   | Gaius, the leader of the Order of Sydon, now has more influence over King Acastus than the goddess Vallus. How can such a thing come to be?                                          |
| 4   | King Pythor, the God of Battle, has abdicated his throne and no one knows where he has gone!                                                                                         |
| 5   | The petrified victims of the Lady of Coins are being found in increasing numbers. King Acastus has been unable to stop her! Perhaps the Order of Sydon will help…                    |
| 6   | The great chimera of the Cerulean Gulf took adozen victims aboard a merchant ship that was just one day’s journey from Mytros.                                                       |
| 7   | Ekoh, an oread, is calling for war with Aresia again. After 500 years, she's still trying to get her betrothed back. She should really give it a rest.                               |
| 8   | The most powerful merchant of Mytros, Lord Stavros, was banished to the Isle of Exiles for poisoning the son of his rival!                                                           |
| 9   | The Order of Sydon grows too powerful. They have seemingly unlimited wealth. Some think their wealth comes from the lost gygan ruins on the Island of Yonder.                        |
| 10  | The barbarian tribes of Indigo Island have been unusually quiet as of late. There have been no raids in recent years. What are they planning?                                        |
| 11  | Something has disturbed Kentimane. The Titan’s great arms are on the move! Many have seen it!                                                                                        |
| 12  | The great vortex known as Charybdis has swallowed another ship. The ship was from Aresia. It was heading to Scorpion Island, full of young warrior monks going to their final trial. |

# City Map

```leaflet
id: city-of-mytros
image: [[The City of Mytros.png]]
height: 1000px
lat: 50
long: 50
minZoom: 1
maxZoom: 10
defaultZoom: 8
unit: meters
scale: 1
marker: default, 39.983334, -82.983330, [[Note]]
darkMode: false
```

# The Temple District
The Temple district is so named because it is home to both the ancient Temple of the Five and the newer Temple of Sydon. This is the centre of religious and civic power in Mytros. It's also where the Great Palace can be found. Everything in this part of the city is impressive: the Theatre of the Gods can hold crowds of thousands, while the Academy is one of the greatest centres of learning anywhere in the world.

# The Noble District
The Noble District is loud, crowded, and colorful. Merchants from all across Thylea come here to ply their trades at the Great Agora, and to keep their wealth in the Royal Bank. Many of the wealthiest citizens of Mytros have real estate here.

# The Harbour
> The harbor of Mytros is as grand as the rest of the city. You see ships sailing in and out of the bay, while others remain tied up at docks. On one side of the harbor stands an immense bronze statue of a muscular man. It's clear that another such colossus once stood opposite this one, but it now lies in ruins.

The harbor of Mytros is the largest in Thylea. Dozens of ships that ply the sea lanes of the Cerulean Gulf can be found anchored in the bay, while others are in dry dock, undergoing repairs.

# Stygian Row
> This low-lying district is vastly different from the rest of the city. Its clogged, stinking streets are filthy and poorly maintained. Ruffians and vagrants shout threatening words at you as you pass. Signs of drunkenness, violence, and open debauchery are everywhere.

Stygian Row is a wretched hive of scoundrels and sellswords. This is a den of iniquity, where any vice may be freely indulged, and Lutheria is openly revered. This part of the city never sleeps, as drunken revellers parade through the streets at all hours of the night, and merchants hawk their illicit goods in broad daylight.

### Tiefling Enclave
The district gets its name from the word that many Thyleans use for tieflings—“Stygians.” Five hundred years ago, this district was established as an enclave where tieflings could be corralled, because they were thought to be untrustworthy spies of Lutheria.

### Half-Orc Enclave
Half-orcs in Thylea are not mistrusted the way they often are in other lands. When the original settlers learned that no orcs lived in Thylea, many of the half-orcs among them realized that they needed to live in close proximity to keep their bloodline alive. They decided to settle alongside the tieflings.

Both half-orcs and tieflings are common in this district, though neither race is particularly villainous, especially when compared to the loathsome humans who manage the [[M21. The Minotaur Market|Minotaur Market (M21)]].
