> Winds pull at your clothes and tug at the ship’s sail and ropes as the skies begin to darken. On the horizon, a massive storm roils towards your ship with alarming speed. As it draws closer, the ocean grows violent. Soon, your vessel is pitched about by powerful gales and crashing waves.

The heroes can sail into the hurricane or try to outrun it, but magic is required to outrun this storm. Spells such as *gust of wind*, *wind wall* or a *conjured air elemental* will allow the Ultros to skirt the worst of the hurricane. If the party decides to ride out the storm, one of the heroes must stay above decks to steer the ship.

**Navigating the Storm.** The ship is in the hurricane for d4+1 hours. Each hour in the storm, the hero piloting the ship must make a **DC 15 Wisdom (Survival)** check. On a failure, they must make a successful **DC 15 Strength (Athletics)** check or be swept overboard. If someone is assisting the pilot, then both characters must make this check.

**Surviving the Hurricane.** Being swept overboard is almost certain death by drowning. However, you have the option of having the drowning hero be rescued by mermaids. They will appear after the storm has passed, carrying the unconscious hero. They will expect some recompense in the form of jewellery or gems. If the heroes refuse to pay, then the mermaids drag the ship, cutting its speed in half for a full day, as a form of petty revenge.

**The Eye of the Storm.** If the heroes steer the ship into the storm, they will reach the eye of the storm after an hour. At the centre of the hurricane is **Goloron** (CE **young empyrean**), one of Sydon’s children. He is talking and cackling to himself, and he is largely unaware of the storm that he has created. He has been sent by his father to survey the oceans. He ignores the heroes, unless they disturb him. If disturbed, Goloron will furiously question the heroes and demand that they kneel before him. However, he will not attack unless provoked.