> You follow a small trail away from the road and into the forested hills. After an hour of travel, the trees grow dense, and the canopy blocks most of the sky.
Eventually, you emerge into an expansive forest glade carpeted with golden leaves. Several dozen small huts and houses are scattered throughout the glade, along the banks of a clear stream. Gnomes and halflings bustle about the area, tending small sheep, foraging for berries, and collecting kindling for their fires.

The people of Woodhike are quite friendly, and the children are endlessly curious about adventurers. Two friendly sprites live in the nearby woods, and they love to play pranks on visitors.

If the party wishes to speak to someone in the village, **Thobos** (LG halfling [[noble]]) will invite them into his house for tea. Thobos is the mayor of Woodhike, and he travels to Mytros twice a year to represent the smallfolk. He offers the party anything he can to help with their quest, but all the beds in Woodhike are for small races. Once the tea is poured and formalities are out of the way, Thobos asks the party for their help with his problems.

## Quest: Bandits
Recently, animals have been going missing, and the sprites have discovered trees felled by axes. Thobos believes that there are human poachers living somewhere nearby. There is in fact a group of **bandits** about a mile upstream, led by a woman named **Korteva** (CE *bandit chief*). She’s somehow bullied a gentle-natured **cyclops** into joining her gang, and he is convinced that the bandits are his friends. 

> After following the stream for a mile or so, you hear the sounds of thunderous footsteps just ahead. Soon, the originator of those loud footfalls comes into view: a muscular, twelve-foot tall cyclops. He smiles and waves in your direction. In the trees beyond, you can see a party of humans sitting around a fire.

The party can persuade the **cyclops** that the **bandits** are not his friends with a successful **DC 18 Charisma (Persuasion) check**. Otherwise, if the party threatens the bandits in any way, the cyclops joins the attack in order to protect his so-called ‘friends.’

The cyclops is neutral good, so killing him is an evil  act. If the party manages to separate the cyclops from the bandits, then Thobos is willing to adopt him.