
The heroes have rescued the Oracle from the clutches of the witch Heleka, and in the process, they've learned the first portion of what the Fates have in store for them. Now, they must undertake a series of Great Labours in order to prepare for their confrontation with the Titans.

# Running the Adventure
The party's next destination is the city of Estoria, which should serve as a base for the heroes for this chapter. In Estoria, they will meet up with characters and hear rumours that will lead them to the three locations that must be visited to complete their Great Labours.

Estoria offers many other activities and quests for the heroes to engage with. These are all optional, but they should help immerse players in the world of Thylea.

# The Great Labours
The party must perform 2-3 of the following tasks.
- Claim the weapons of the Dragonlords
- Light the fires of the Mithral Forge
- Drink from the Horn of Balmytria

## 1. Claim the Weapons of the Dragonlords
This task requires the heroes to travel to Telamok, the necropolis in the Mithral Mountains. This requires a bit of travel, and it's quite dangerous.

## 2. Light the Fires of the Mithral Forge
This task requires the heroes to locate the ancient Mithral Forge. There is a clan of dwarves in Estoria that works the local copper mines, and they are likely to know more about the Forge’s whereabouts.

## 3. Drink From the Horn of Balmytria
The Horn of Balmytria is kept in a reliquary in the city of Estoria and, as far as anyone knows, it’s still there. Investigating the Dragon Shrine (E7) in Estoria is the best place to start.

## Meeting King Pythor
In addition to these Great Labors, the heroes will meet King Pythor of Estoria. Pythor requires the heroes' aid to prevent his daughter from being sacrificed.


