The heroes have been summoned to the Estorian Palace to meet with King Pythor. Pythor is one of the Five Gods—the legendary God of Battle. But now, he is said to be mad with grief over his many lost loves, and the imminent sacrifice of his daughter, Anora. 

The Order of Sydon has demanded that the princess be sacrificed to the Lord of Storms. If this is not done, then an army of centaurs and cyclopes will descend upon Estoria and slaughter all the people of the city. 

Because King Pythor is one of the Five Gods, he is bound by the Oath of Peace. He cannot take up arms against the Titans until the oath ends. Only the heroes can intervene to save his daughter.

## The History of King Pythor
 King Pythor has ruled over Estoria for several centuries, having taken power when he overthrew the tyrant king Lysis Arkelander, a descendant of Estor Arkelander (after whom the city is named). The long years have not been kind to the god-king. He has had more than a dozen wives and countless mistresses, but those he loved the most have almost always come to gruesome ends, thanks to the green dragon Hexia. No one knows why the dragon has such hatred for Pythor, but the loss of so many loved ones has driven Pythor to drink.

Although the people of Estoria love him, Pythor is essentially a womanizing drunkard. He abdicates all his responsibilities in favour of hunting, seducing the latest beauty at court, or indulging in drunken and self-pitying excesses that last for days.

## Meeting the King
When the heroes arrive in the throne room, Pythor is drunk and attempting to fight the statues of the Five Gods, which line the hall. As the Oracle’s chosen arrive, his attendants withdraw, whispering nervously among themselves. This leaves only the King to speak with the heroes.

> Once the room has emptied and the chamber doors are shut, the King tosses away his spear and sits heavily upon his throne, holding his head in his hands. He beckons you to come closer. “You are the Oracle's Chosen, yes? Let me tell you of my woes...”

If Kyrah is with the heroes, then she will step forward to lecture King Pythor, who is her brother.

> Before Pythor can continue, Kyrah brashly interrupts him. “Whatever your ‘woes’ may be, drowning yourself in wine will not solve them,” she scolds. “You have a duty to serve your people in these dark times! This wallowing does no one any good.”
>
King Pythor hangs his head at her harsh words. “That may be true, but what can be done? The Oath of Peace binds my hands. And now, the Titans conspire to steal away my precious daughter, Anora.”
>
“But perhaps… perhaps you heroes can aid me.”

Pythor will tell the heroes of the problems that face him. Several weeks ago, the Order of Sydon sent a detachment of warriors to Estoria with demands from the Lord of Storms. The Titan demanded that Pythor’s daughter **Anora** (LG [[noble]]) should be chained to the Rock of Estor amid the rushing waters of the Arkelon River, and left there overnight as an offering to Sydon.

### Princess Anora
Anora is Pythor’s only child by his last mortal wife, a woman he dearly loved. Years ago, Anora’s mother was carried away to the Forgotten Sea by the evil dragon, Hexia.

### The Army of Sydon
If this sacrifice is not accomplished by the next full moon, then all the gathered tribes of the centaurs will descend upon Estoria and raze the city to the ground. Sydon has already starved the city with this latest drought, and he always makes good on his threats. If Pythor doesn’t comply and sacrifice his daughter, it will mean the deaths of thousands.

### The Rock of Sacrifice
To be chained to the Rock is to be devoured by the beasts of the river. Princess Anora is resigned to her fate as she will do anything to protect her city. Knowing this, Pythor has locked her away in the dungeons to prevent her from leaving the palace.

## Possible Solutions

The heroes can discuss solutions with Pythor and Kyrah. The heroes need not act immediately; they have the time to complete one Great Labour before the next full moon. However, if the heroes fail to show up, the Order of Sydon will carry out the sacrifice by force, with Anora going willingly to her doom.

Pythor, all kingly dignity washed away, will beg the heroes to help protect his daughter. He suggests the following possible courses of action:

### Negotiate with the Order of Sydon
The heroes could persuade the Order of Sydon to choose another sacrifice. Pythor offers fifty oxen (worth 100 gp each) for this solution. He knows that the Order will also want another human, but he can’t bring himself to suggest anyone. If present, Kyrah will suggest that this may be the best option available.

### Challenging the Centaur Chieftain
The heroes could challenge the centaur chieftain to combat. If they prevail, they could demoralize the army of centaurs and cyclopes that have gathered along the northern banks of the Arkelon. This would be a feat worthy of the Dragonlords, but Kyrah thinks this would be suicide, as the only way to disperse the army would be to defeat the chieftain on unequal footing.

### Let Anora be Sacrificed
The heroes can tell Pythor that they are unable to help. If they do so, Pythor will drink himself into a stupor before the sacrifice and remain insensible for a week afterwards.

One additional option is to track down and kill the basilisks that petrify those offered on the Rock of Estor. No one will suggest this plan, so the heroes will have to come up with this on their own. It should be noted that doing so will not save the princess, for Lutheria will send harpies to Anora’s sacrifice to make sure of the death.

## Asking for Assistance

If the heroes ask for help in accomplishing their Great Labors, King Pythor will direct them to talk to his father, the dwarf Volkan who runs the local smithy. If pressed as to how a dwarf could be his father, Pythor will apologetically explain that, “it’s... complicated.”

## The Order of Sydon
The seven **captains** representing the Order of Sydon can be found lodging in the palace. They are led by a heavily-armoured man named [[Commander Gaius |  Gaius]] (see appendix). He will turn down the offer of fifty oxen and will initially be against anyone taking the place of Anora.

However, Gaius will change his mind if any of the heroes suggest themselves as replacements. If they don’t think of this, he suggests it before they leave. He knows that Sydon wishes to see the Oracle's Chosen killed, and offering them up on the Rock of Estor would be a fitting way to do it. Gaius will only agree to a substitution if all of the heroes agree to be sacrificed together.

## The Centaur Chieftain

King Pythor arranges for the heroes to meet with the chieftain on the other side of Arkelon. The chieftain comes with a dozen centaurs and two cyclopes. The chieftain, **Baenor**, is a massive centaur (**centaur hero** with maximum hit points), and he can be convinced to participate in a ritual combat with a successful **DC 20 Charisma (Persuasion)** check (or with a particularly strong argument).

### Ritual Combat

If the heroes convince Baenor, then he swears an oath that his army will leave the city in peace if his side loses. Baenor will demand that there are an equal number of combatants on both sides. He also demands that all of the heroes participate in the battle.

Baenor leads the fight, joined by one **cyclops**, and the remainder of his force are a number of **centaur heroes** to equal the number of heroes. It should be obvious that victory here will be almost impossible. Kyrah will advise against it, especially if the heroes intend to use trickery, as this will only anger the centaurs further.

If the heroes persist and are killed, Kyrah will gather their bodies and bring them back to the palace, where she spends one week reviving them

# The Sacrifice

> You are part of a grim procession that leads toward the Rock of Estor in the River Arkelon. Gaius and his knights lead you through the ford and onto the sacrifical rock. After binding each of you by the leg to the central pole, Gaius motions to you and says, “You are now offered as a sacrifice to appease the Lord of Storms. Remain here until the sun rises. If you step away from the rock, this city will suffer the wrath of Sydon.”

Gaius and all seven of his captains accompany the heroes to the Rock of Estor. Each person chained to the Rock of Estor can only move up to 10 ft. from the central pole. The shackles can be unlocked with a successful **DC 15 Dexterity check** with thieves' tools. They can also be destroyed by attacks (AC 15, 10 HP each).

On the far side of the river, twelve **centaurs** gather to watch the proceedings. They will not intervene unless attacked or anyone tries to get to their side of the river

### The Harpies Attack
Ten minutes after the heroes are chained, **three harpies** will begin to circle one hundred feet above the rock. The harpies have been sent by Lutheria to watch over the spectacle of the sacrifice. The harpies won’t use their songs, but they will taunt the heroes. If any of the heroes leave the Rock of Estor the harpies will use their luring song to lure those particular heroes into the depths of the river, where they will swoop down and attempt to kill them.

### The Basilisks Attack

Twenty minutes after the heroes are chained, two **basilisks** will emerge from the river and attack anyone on the Rock of Estor. If the basilisks have already been killed in their nest cave, then nothing appears. The harpies, the centaurs and the Order of Sydon will become increasingly agitated as they wait for the basilisks. Eventually the harpies will swarm down in a fury and try to kill the heroes.

If the heroes survive until sunrise, then Gaius and his captains will grudgingly allow them to go free. The terms of the sacrifice have been met, even if the Titan himself is infuriated by the outcome.

# Celebration with the King

If the heroes survive the Rock of Estor or prevail in a battle against the centaur chieftain, Pythor will summon them back to his throne room in the palace.

> When you return to the palace, King Pythor is already deep in his cups, celebrating your victory. He greets each of you with a bone-crushing hug and a painful slap on the back. “Warriors of the prophecy, you have my eternal gratitude!”
> 
“There was a time when I would have taken to the fields to battle the centaur army single-handedly, but alas, I fear my fighting days are behind

The king retrieves his hammer (*Pythor’s hammer*) and grants it to one of the heroes, giving preferential treatment to his demi-god children if any are present.

As the God of Battle, Pythor once used this hammer to smash entire armies of gygans, centaurs, and cyclopes. There are countless stories about this hammer, none of which Pythor can quite recall at the moment. He explains that his father, Volkan, the God of the Forge, created it. Volkan can use the hammer to craft mighty weapons and armour at the *Mithral Forge*.

Finally, the king declares a full week of celebration in Estoria, in honour of the heroes. The heroes may choose to stay and enjoy the week’s celebrations. There will be plays at the public theatre that they can participate in, as well as much feasting and drinking. If Kyrah is present, she encourages the party to press on with their Labours.

