The Mithral Forge was used by the dwarves to construct the gods’ weapons in the First War. Almost all of the powerful magical weapons and armour used by the Dragonlords and their successors were created here. It now lies abandoned by the dwarven smiths: the upper levels have become the lair of a tribe of troglodytes, and the lower levels are guarded by a terrifying beast.

## The History of the Forge

The Mithral Forge was a key component of the victory of the Dragonlords over the armies of the Titans. The dwarves that came across the seas with the Dragonlords discovered this deposit of mithral and adamantine in the central mountain range of the new continent. For more than a decade, the mithral and adamantine was mined and used to forge weapons, armour, and magical artifacts for the mortal armies.

The Titan, Lutheria, decided that something had to be done about the mine. She formed a pact with the Fates, who used their magic to breed a terrifying **Cerberus** hound. Lutheria unleashed this hound to destroy the forge and slaughter the dwarves.

After driving out the dwarves, the Cerberus hound made a lair in the mines and began to spawn hundreds of **death dogs**. The Dragonlords tried to retake the forge, but they were repeatedly driven back until they were forced to abandon it entirely.

For several centuries the hound watched over the ruined forge. However, a decade ago, some primordial thing from the depths of the Underdark emerged and killed it. The death dogs remained in the mine but, without anything to direct them, they retreated into the lower depths. Several tribes of troglodytes crept into the upper levels soon afterwards.

# Travelling to the Forge

The Arkelon River flows southward from the Mithral Mountains and cascades over the Great Falls of Arkelon, where it empties into the Cerulean Gulf. Setting out from the North Gate of Estoria at dawn, the heroes may follow an abandoned road through the steppes to reach these falls by dusk.

## The Abandoned Road

>This long-abandoned road is rocky and overgrown with roots and thorny shrubs. It winds westward along the granite cliffs of the Estorian tributary. North of the road are expansive steppes, and beyond that, hazy blue mountains. The sky is grey and cold by day, but at night the clouds withdraw to reveal a blanket of stars.

This road was once used to ferry metal goods and ore from the mines, until it was abandoned centuries ago. The steppes are quiet and the trip is uneventful. At sunset, the heroes encounter a band of centaurs.

## Encounter: Band of Centaurs

>The thunder of hooves can be heard from the north. You see a dozen mounted men riding in your direction. The riders wear bronze helmets, and they carry long pikes tied with flowing scarlet ribbons. As the riders draw closer, you realize that they aren’t riders at all. They are centaurs—nomadic warriors with the torsos of men and the lower bodies of horses.

Twelve **centaurs** will surround the heroes. If the centaurs are attacked, they will fight only to subdue, not to kill. 

The chief of the centaurs is named **Hukar**. He warns the heroes that, if they are heading to the Great Falls, then they should beware. Troglodytes dwell in the caves there, emerging at night to hunt for food. He thinks that two of his kin fell into the clutches of the foul creatures. There is nothing he can do for them, as the paths and tunnels of the mines are too treacherous for his kind.

### Quest: The Missing Centaurs

If the heroes agree to search for Hukar’s kin, then he gives them an ivory horn. He tells them to blow the horn on the riverbank of the Arkelon when they have discovered the fate of his kin, and he offers a reward.

#### Rewards
If the heroes discover the fate of the missing centaurs, they may do as Hukar instructed. The horn will summon the centaurs to the riverbank. They will mourn their dead and invite the party to drink under the stars with them. True to his word, Hukar will give the heroes three potions of heroism as a reward.

#### Blood of Sydon
Hukar explains that the potions are concocted from the blood of his tribe, who are blessed by the Lord of Storms, the Ocean Father—Sydon. He knows that the heroes are prophesied to confront the Titans, but he encourages them to consider Sydon's great wisdom.


# The Great Falls of Arkelon
> This rocky promontory looks out over a spectacular vista dominated by the Great Falls of Arkelon. The river cascades over a sheer cliff and roars into a vast, semi-circular lake, throwing up a white mist.
> 
The Great Falls are almost beyond description. It’s as if an entire ocean has spilled over the edge of the world, and you stand marveling at the space beyond. You have never seen anything so grand. The sound of rushing water is almost deafening, and the light of the fading day gleams across the water like red gold.
>
Four massive statues of stone hands surround the lake. To the south, you can see the river snaking down from the mountains, through the Oldwoods, while the snow capped Mithral Mountains dominate the western horizon.

A wooded path descends down to the misty riverbank, where the collapsed entrance to the mines can be seen. A secret pathway into the mines can be found here with a trivial investigation.

The lake is flanked by four massive statues of hands, two per side. These are the **Hands of Kentimane**, the Elder Titan, but they are dormant for now.

## The Collapsed Entrance

The main entrance to the mines is blocked by tons of rubble and is completely inaccessible. This was done by the dwarves when they fled from the Cerberus hound, as they hoped to keep the beast sealed away.

# The Troglodyte Caves

The troglodyte caves are inhabited by dozens of the vile creatures, including brood mothers and litters of troglodyte young. They are more organized than typical troglodytes, because they have an intelligent king.

```leaflet
id: The Mithral Mines - Upper Level
image: [[The Mithral Mines - Upper Level.png]]
height: 1000px
lat: 50
long: 50
minZoom: 1
maxZoom: 10
defaultZoom: 9
unit: meters
scale: 1
marker: default, 39.983334, -82.983330, [[Note]]
darkMode: false
```

```leaflet
id: The Mithral Mines - Lower Level
image: [[The Mithral Mines - Lower Level.png]]
height: 800px
lat: 50
long: 50
minZoom: 1
maxZoom: 10
defaultZoom: 9
unit: meters
scale: 1
marker: default, 39.983334, -82.983330, [[Note]]
darkMode: false
```

# The Mithral Mines

The mines were built out from a shaft that gives easy access to a vein of mithral and adamantine mineral deposits. The shaft descends for one mile into natural caverns that connect with the Underdark. The dwarves mined the easily accessible ore along the first 500 ft. of the shaft before they were driven out by the cerberus hound. The mithral and adamantine veins continue all the way down to the Underdark. Untouched since the dawn of time (except for the few decades the dwarves mined it), the deposits are the greatest lodes of mithral and adamantine in the world. The troglodytes inhabited the upper level of the mine until just a few days ago when the death dogs arrived

# The Mithral Forge
This is the central part of the Mithral Mines, where the dwarves forged the magical items used by the Dragonlords to defeat the armies of the Titans. The most obvious way to get down to the armoury is by using the elevator, but it is also possible to reach the armoury by climbing down the main shaft.