Deep within the Oldwoods lies a ruined temple complex covered in a thick layer of moss and surrounded by massive trees. No one knows who built the temple, but the Druids of Oldwood believe that it is the oldest structure in the Heartlands. They maintain a circle of standing stones nearby, hoping to appease the spirits that haunt the temple. None who enter the temple have ever returned.

## The History of the Temple
The temple's true name is lost to history. It was built thousands of years ago by an ancient race of six-armed cyclops called the gygans. It honours Sydon, and it harkens to a time long before the mortal races arrived in Thylea. During this period, the gygans were devout servants of the Titans. They propitiated Sydon with great sacrifices, earned his favour, and their empire spanned all the islands of Thylea. The gygans were thought to have been exterminated by Pythor and the Dragonlords by the end of the First War.

## Demetria, the Vengeful Dryad
Recently, teenagers have been disappearing from the towns and farms around Estoria. They are lured into the forest by roving bands of goatlings that serve the mistress of the temple, a dryad named **Demetria**.

Demetria has good cause to hate the people of Mytros and Estoria. Centuries ago, the Dragonlord Estor Arkelander chopped down her sister’s oak tree to use as the mast for his ship, the Ultros. Demetria went mad with grief for her sister. She swore fealty to Lutheria, who embraced her and further stoked her rage.

Demetria loathes mortals. She captures young men and women to serve in Lutheria’s dark rituals, telling them that they are being initiated into an ancient priesthood. In actuality, the women are transformed into monstrous **maenads**, while the men are slaughtered and devoured in ritual feasts.

In the past year, Demetria has become more brazen. She has captured dozens of teenagers now. Recently, she sent her goatlings to steal the Horn of Balmytria, in order to feed her growing number of servants.

## Quest: The Horn of Balmytria
> As the Oracle's Chosen, you know that one of your Great Labours is to drink from the Horn of Balmytria. But the horn has been stolen from the Dragon Shrine by a tribe of goatlings. They’ve carried it south from Estoria into the Oldwoods, and they haven’t been very careful. The trail is marked by haphazard splashes of red wine which run all the way through the forest.

# The Oldwoods

The Oldwoods is an ancient forest that lies in the centre of the Heartlands, surrounded on all sides by fields and farms. It is a forest consisting mostly of ancient oak and walnut trees. For the first century, the new settlers to Thylea cut down trees to build their farms, towns and cities. But they stopped when they reached the Oldwoods because fey creatures are known to haunt the forest. In the modern daytimes, no one enters the Oldwoods except for the Druids.

Traveling to the edge of the Oldwoods only takes a few hours. Traveling within the Oldwoods to the Mossy Temple takes the better part of a day. Tracking the goatlings requires a successful **DC 10 Wisdom check**.

## Encounter: Tribe of Goatlings
Following the trail of the goatlings, the heroes eventually come to a shadowy clearing in the woods.

>The forest grows dark around you, with barely any light making its way through the canopy. You hear birds and beasts clamoring beyond every bush, and eventually, the path you are following seems to disappear into the underbrush. You emerge into a dimly-lit clearing, surrounded on all sides by oak trees.
>
>The forest suddenly grows quiet. You can hear something crashing through the brush ahead of you. A young girl bursts into the clearing, breathing hard. Tears streak her dirt-caked face. She looks stunned to see you. “You... are you really there? Please help!”
>
>You hear more crashing sounds from the forest as six hideous creatures emerge into the clearing. They are six goat-headed creatures with cloven hooves. One of them laughs harshly. “Give us the sweetling. We’ve had dinner, but she’ll make a fine dessert!”

The six goatlings attack the heroes before they can respond. Three of them will use *mockery*. Roleplay the taunts that they hurl at the heroes.

• “Get lost, you pathetic starvelings!”
• “Your face inspires me… to vomit!”
• “You are a plague-sore on the ass of a pig!”
• “Bald legs! Bald legs! Bald legs!”
• “Fish-faced assassins of joy!”

##  Quest: Corinna’s Friends
**Corinna** (NG *scout*) is the daughter of Thericles, who works the vineyards in Estoria (E13). She and her friends were lured into the temple by a beautiful woman named Demetria, who promised wealth, beauty, and fame. 

Corinna was warned to leave the temple by a young satyr named Loreus, who said that she and her friends would soon be doomed to a fate worse than death. She fled the temple, but the goatlings pursued her.

If the party asks about the *Horn of Balmytria*, Corinna confirms that the horn is in the temple. She warns the party that Demetria is unspeakably beautiful, and has a way with words that makes everyone fall in love with her. Nevertheless, she wants to save her friends, so she is determined to accompany the heroes into the temple.

# The Temple 

```leaflet
id: the-mossy-temple
image: [[The Mossy Temple.png]]
height: 1000px
lat: 50
long: 50
minZoom: 1
maxZoom: 10
defaultZoom: 8
unit: meters
scale: 1
marker: default, 39.983334, -82.983330, [[Note]]
darkMode: false
```

# The Ancient Glade
The ancient glade was a natural cavern that the gygans built over. The gygans’ mirror system lets light into the cavern and allows the rare plants to grow. The natural cavern has a ceiling that is 20 ft. in height, while the worked stone tunnels and chambers are 10 ft. in height.


```leaflet
id: the-ancient-glade
image: [[The Ancient Glade.png]]
height: 1000px
lat: 50
long: 50
minZoom: 1
maxZoom: 10
defaultZoom: 8
unit: meters
scale: 1
marker: default, 39.983334, -82.983330, [[Note]]
darkMode: false
```

# The Feasting Halls

The feasting halls are chambers of worked stone built by the gygans more than a millennium ago. The ceilings are 15 ft. in height, and the walls are cyclopean stonework.

## The Horn of Balmytria

Once the heroes have secured the Horn of Balmytria, they are expected to drink from it. They may choose to do this as soon as they recover it, or they may wait.

Drinking even a small amount of wine from the horn for the first time sends the heroes into a deep sleep for 8 hours. The heroes experience vivid dreams during this sleep:

> You are standing on the deck of a beautiful galley. A bright cerulean sea stretches out before you. You look down at a strange bronze device in your hands. It seems to reflect the constellations of the night sky, even though the sun shines brightly overhead.
> 
> The oarsmen pull the ship through the water faster than you thought possible. You look down at the men on the benches. They meet your gaze with dead eyes and skeletal faces—dozens of leering corpses.
> 
> You are startled awake.

Kyrah can interpret this dream, as can Aesop at the *Dragon Shrine* in Estoria, or Proteus at the *Temple of the Oracle*. They know that you have seen the *Ultros*.

### The Ghost Ship
There is only one ghost ship known to the people of Thylea, the *Ultros*. This is the famous trireme constructed by the Dragonlords, five centuries ago. It was commanded by a bloodthirsty man, Estor Arkelander who was responsible for starting the First War. He was later cursed to sail the seas forever as a ghost. 

The only person who is likely to know the location of the *Ultros* is King Acastus of Mytros, for he is a descendant of Estor Arkelander.

###  The Strange Device
The bronze construct from the dream may be the legendary magical compass known as the Antikythera. Supposedly, it has the power to navigate to all of the islands in the Cerulean Sea, the Forgotten Sea, and even the legendary Nether Sea. It's uncertain where this item might be found, but it's useless without the ship.