Telamok is a sacred site built alongside a canyon in the Mithral Mountains. The mountain and its ruins are named after the ancient Dragonlord, Telamok.

Ancient, time-worn bridges cross a vast mist shrouded chasm to cliffs where the entrances to tombs and crypts are located. This is a place of death where no living being stirs. The ruins are covered by a thin layer of snow and ice, which absorbs sound and enshrouds the area in an eerie silence.

	Deathly Silence
	When describing the journey to the Necropolis, you should emphasize the silence. The snow absorbs much of the sound. The skeletons and specters make no sound when attacking. Damon does not speak. The only creature in the entire necropolis that speaks is the minotaur Graxis.

## The History of the Necropolis
The Necropolis was built to house the remains of the Dragonlords who came to Thylea five centuries ago. Xander Huorath, the first and greatest of the Dragonlords, is buried at the centre of the Necropolis. In addition to the Dragonlords, the skeletal remains of Balmytria, the silver dragon, are entombed here. 

This 'city of the dead' is regarded as a sacred place, forbidden to anyone except other Dragonlords. It is guarded by Damon, a lich. He was Xander’s friend and the most powerful wizard of his day. Since he achieved undeath, he has seen all of his friends pass into the afterlife and now makes sure no one loots the city's treasures.

## Armaments of the Dragonlords
One of the party's Great Labours requires them to recover the armaments of the Dragonlords. Xander's armaments are still located in his crypt. The Axe of Xander and the Shield of Volkan have been looted by the minotaur Graxis, while the Breastplate of Mytros is still on the corpse of Xander in his sarcophagus.

# Travelling to the Necropolis

## Encounter: Arms of Kentimane
> At first, your journey across the great plains of Thylea is an uneventful one. The road to the Necropolis at Telamok is well maintained but little travelled. As the Mithral Mountains drift into sight, you encounter a scene that is almost beyond comprehension. Dozens of massive stone arms reach out of the ground, dwarfing everything around you for a mile.
> 
> The arms are motionless and seemingly have no purpose. This alien sight invites unnerving questions: what are the arms for? Who created them? Are they alive?

These statues are the arms of Kentimane, the Hundred-Handed Titan. They cannot be damaged and they will not move against the heroes.

## The Path of the Dead
> This path leads upwards into the Mithral Mountains. It is commonly known as the Path of the Dead, because it is the only way to reach the Necropolis at Telamok. 
> 
> It is utterly quiet. There are no bird calls, no insects, no animal life at all. Even the sound of the wind is missing in the dead air. It grows colder as the path gains height, and a light covering of snow begins to coat the path. The path is narrow and treacherous. Just past the edge, the ground falls away for hundreds of feet.
> 
> The silence is suddenly ended by a song… A song so beautiful that it makes your heart ache with desire.

Partway up the mountain, three **harpies** begin to harass the heroes. They have nested on the cliff opposite the mountain path, and they use their luring song to ensnare hapless travellers.  

### Dangerous Ledge
Those affected by the song will try to leap the chasm to reach the harpies’ nest. Before making the leap, an affected character can make another Wisdom saving throw to shake off the charm. Failing that, they must make a **DC 15 Strength check** to successfully leap from the path to the nest. Any character who fails the leap falls 50 feet to a ledge below and suffers **5d6 bludgeoning damage**.

## Valley Shrouded in Mist
The mountain is surrounded by deep valleys that are forever shrouded in mist. The valleys are empty of living creatures, but they are patrolled by those who died in the construction of the Necropolis. Anyone who climbs down to the valley floor is immediately swarmed by **skeletons**, **minotaur skeletons**, and **spectres**.

The initial fight is against 1d4 **skeletons**, but after two rounds, another 1d4 **skeletons** and one **minotaur skeleton** will join the fight. Then, after another two rounds, 1d4 **skeletons** and one **spectre**. After that, 1d4 **spectres** will join every round. Trying to climb up from the valley to the Necropolis is difficult—the sheer cliffs are 500 feet high. For the first 100 feet, anyone trying to climb will be harassed by spectres.

# The Necropolis Ruins

```leaflet
id: necropolis-at-telamok
image: [[The Necropolis at Telamok.png]]
height: 1000px
lat: 50
long: 50
minZoom: 1
maxZoom: 10
defaultZoom: 8
unit: meters
scale: 1
marker: default, 39.983334, -82.983330, [[Note]]
darkMode: false
```

Once the players have made it across the bridge and dealt with Damon.

> Across the bridge, you can see 12 tomb entrances carved into the cliffs, each marked by four stone columns. To the north is a great white marble mausoleum, the size of a small palace.
> 
> Close to the mausoleum’s entrance is a 13th tomb, much grander than the others, standing alone in a rocky outcropping away from the cliffs. You see many bodies lying upon the icy paths that wind around the ruins. Some are the desiccated, half-frozen corpses of would-be grave robbers, while others are statues of various sizes and styles. Their frozen eyes seem to be watching you.

The Necropolis is a dangerous place and many of the threats are too great for low level characters to handle. However, curious parties may attempt to loot the tombs anyway. There are various ways to dissuade this: desiccated bodies lay outside many of the tombs, looking as if they were ripped apart by some beast.

## Tomb Exteriors
The tombs are built into cliffs that are about 15 feet high. Most of the tombs have four marble pillars set into the cliff face. These pillars are entwined with dragons. Each tomb entrance is sealed with a chiselled marble slab measuring 5 feet wide, 5 feet tall, and 5 feet thick. Removing or resetting this stone slab requires an action and a successful **DC 25 Strength check**.

### Warning Inscriptions
Each tomb inscription names the Dragonlord interred inside, along with a warning:

	DEATH AWAITS ANY WHO WOULD
	 desecrate the great warrior within.

Kyrah warns the heroes of the dire consequences of robbing consecrated tombs. Plundering certain tombs will subject the heroes to the *curse of the graverobber*.

## Tomb Interiors
Each tomb is the resting place of one Dragonlord. Their name, epitaph, and the warning are inscribed on the marble slab that blocks each entrance. Each tomb is a 15 x 15-foot chamber, and each contains a 5 x 8-foot rectangular marble sarcophagus.

Inside each sarcophagus is a Dragonlord and the treasure that was buried with them. Early Dragonlords were buried with mithral and adamantine items but, after the Mithral Mine was closed, those ores became rare. Later Dragonlords are buried with bronze items.

# The Tomb of Xander
This is the burial tomb of Xander Hourath, the first Dragonlord. The heroes must enter this tomb to claim the armaments of the Dragonlords in order to complete one of their Great Labours.

The tomb is guarded by Graxis, a powerful minotaur. He is the last of a bloodthirsty tribe that Lutheria created during the First War. After Rizon Phobas defeated them, Damon cursed the survivors to live forever as guardians of the Necropolis. Consequently, when these minotaurs die, they return as undead skeletons.

Graxis refused to share the fate of his kindred. He murdered them all, just to be safe, and he continues to stalk the region, searching for fresh meat. He despises Damon, Xander, and all the Dragonlords.

```leaflet
id: tomb-of-xander
image: [[Tomb of Xander.png]]
height: 1000px
lat: 50
long: 50
minZoom: 1
maxZoom: 10
defaultZoom: 8
unit: meters
scale: 1
marker: default, 39.983334, -82.983330, [[Note]]
darkMode: false
```

## The Armaments of the Dragonlord
Xander's three legendary items radiate magic and can be attuned. The items are:

• *Axe of Xander*
• *Breastplate of Mytros*
• *Shield of Volkan*

However, the axe and the shield are badly damaged, and their magical properties aren't working. These items must be taken to the [[F21. The Blast Furnace|Mithral Forge (F21)]] for repair.  Volkan must use *Pythor's Hammer* to repair them. He can repair one item per week of work.