>The circular stage of the open air theatre has been built into the bottom of a hill away from the centre of town. Rows of seats taking the form of inlaid stone blocks spread up the slope of the hill, giving onlookers a clear view of any performers below.

This is a small open air local theatre. It is used for festivals, plays, and major public announcements. Most famously, the annual wine festival takes place here. 

Whenever the wine festival is active, priests of Lutheria come to town, often with fey performers. The wine festival might happen when the heroes return to Estoria after finishing one of the Labours. Otherwise, it might take place in the city of Mytros, later on.

## Event: The Wine Festival
Whether the festival takes place in the simple theatre in Estoria or the grander one in Mytros, it is the same event. The festival of three plays lasts for one week and is led by Tassos (CE priest), a priest of Lutheria. Tassos gives three performances over the course of a week:

- *The Fall of Estor.* This tragedy takes place during the First War and depicts Estor Arkelander's final days. In the end, he sacrifices himself to save the entire crew of his legendary ship, the Ultros.

- *The Plight of Pellenia.* This dark comedy takes place in Hypnos, the Throne of Dreams. Lutheria is depicted as charming and sympathetic as she tortures Pellenia, an acerbic bard with no sense of humour.

- *Pythor and the Five Sisters.* This tragedy describes the tumultuous love affair between Pythor and his jealous wife, Hexia. Pythor is depicted as an irascible idiot who bumbles his way into becoming king.

At the end of the week, the festival1 ends in a bacchanal of drinking, eating, and carousing. 

In addition to human and elven actors (CN [[commoner|commoners]]) Tassos uses [[satyr-mpmm|Satyr]] in the performances. The satyrs act in the comedy and perform music for the two tragedies. His two lead actresses are **Seema**, a **green hag** and an **oread nymph** named **Aria**. The green hag uses her illusory appearance ability to hide her identity, while the nymph dresses and applies make-up to appear more human. They hate each other intensely.

*Predatory Hag.* If Seema notices any of the heroes watching her performance, she takes an immediate interest in them. She flirts with them afterwards, with the intention of convincing them to accompany her to the party at festival’s end. There she will attempt to murder the hero and eat their heart. Aria will try to intervene and shoo the hero away to safety, but Seema characterizes Aria’s intervention as bitter jealousy.

	Attending the Wine Festival
	
	The Wine Festival can be used to help teach the players about the world. If heroes choose to stop by and watch one of the performances, you might choose to read aloud  one of the Myths of Thylea. You could even act out a scene  from one of your favorite Greek comedies or tragedies.