> Jutting out of the shallows of the Arkelon River, the Rock of Estor is less impressive than its name would suggest. Its flat surface forms a natural altarpiece where numerous sacrifices have evidently taken place.
> 
> There is an iron pole stuck directly in the centre of the rock, and white stones are scattered around its base. Strong rapids rush past the rock noisily

This rock sits in the middle of the Arkelon River. It is 15 ft. in diameter and stands only a few feet out of the water. The rock sits in the middle of a ford across the river that is only 2-3 ft. deep across its entire width. The top of the rock is smooth with the iron pole sticking in center, surrounded by chunks of white rock.

Sacrifices to Sydon are made at the rock. Almost every day, two members of the Order of Sydon (LN [[guard|guards]] ) lead a cow out to the rock. They tie the cow to the iron pole and then hurry away. A few minutes later, two [[basilisk|basilisks]] (with swim speeds of 20 ft.) emerge from the water and scuttle over to the cow. They turn the cow to stone and then devour the petrified remains. This takes a few minutes, and then they scuttle back into the river.

## Encounter: Basilisks

The basilisks have a cave one mile to the north, and a successful **DC 15 Wisdom (Survival) check** reveals tracks leading into the cave. The cave is only accessible by swimming underwater and then up into a small grotto where the basilisks have a nest.
Between sacrifices, four basilisks can be found here, and there are four eggs in the nest. If all four basilisks are killed, they will no longer show up for sacrifices.