>Estoria’s well-trodden streets converge at the bustling central agora. A motley assortment of stalls litters the area, from canopies of fine silk to stacks of rotted wooden crates. Merchants at the stalls eagerly vie for your attention with a wide variety of quality wares, all of which seem very reasonably priced.

The centre of activity in Estoria is the agora, the large open area that serves as the marketplace and public square for the town. Around the outside of the agora are long, open air buildings that have shops in the back. 

Despite the variety of shops here, the selection of adventuring gear is rather limited. Basic tools, weapons, and armour are available for sale, but more advanced items, such as platemail and crossbows, cannot be found. If the heroes ask for such things, the merchants will grudgingly refer them to Volkan's Hall (E9).

## Event: Cursed Grave Robber

A starved looking man named **Claus** (NE [[bandit]]) is desperately trying to sell an emerald necklace that he claims to have found at the Necropolis at Telamok. The necklace is a *necklace of fireballs* with a single gem left. Claus is willing to sell it for 1 gp, but none of the merchants in Estoria are willing to buy it. If the heroes agree to buy it off of Claus, one of the merchants will intervene and explain that Claus is a graverobber.

The merchant explains that Claus managed to sneak past Damon, the guardian of Telamok, and gain entry to the Necropolis. He stole the necklace from one of the tombs and is now cursed by the gods. As long as he has the necklace he is unable to eat: he just throws up everything. The only way to end the curse is for him to sell the necklace to someone who knows how he got it. If he lies when he tries to sell it, or leaves it somewhere, he always wakes up with it in his possession.

If a hero still foolishly buys the necklace, then they  become afflicted by the *curse of the graverobber*. Refer to Introduction: [[The Laws of Thylea]].