> This shrine sits at the end of a quiet street that runs into the wall of the gorge. It’s a large stone building with a copper dome. The pediment above the door bears a marble engraving of the legendary dragon, Balmytria. Inside the building, there is a strong smell of incense. You can hear the muttering of prayers, as the priests of the shrine carry out their daily rituals.

The chief attendant of this shrine is a priest named **Aesop** (NG [[priest]]). Aesop has heard the prophecy, and he has bad news for the party: the Horn of Balmytria has been stolen from the reliquary. Thieves broke into the shrine two nights ago and escaped with it. Aesop will answer any questions the heroes may have about the horn, and he welcomes an investigation for clues in the reliquary.

## Investigation: The Reliquary
> The reliquary is a small stone chapel with three alcoves protected by glass. The glass of the central alcove has been shattered, and dark purple stains are splattered all over the floor surrounding it.

Investigating the reliquary reveals many small hoofprints among the stains. The stains are spilled wine, and they form a haphazard trail that leads out of the building and into an adjoining alleyway. The party may follow the stains a short distance until the trail becomes too difficult to follow. At this point, the thieves can be tracked with a successful **DC 15 Wisdom (Survival) check**, or by using the *detect magic* spell, which reveals that the wine stains glow faintly with magic.

Following the trail leads the party into the Oldwoods south of town. It continues for about 10 miles, all the  ay to the *Mossy Temple*.

## Returning the Horn of Balmytria
If the heroes return the *Horn of Balmytria* to the reliquary, Aesop will be overjoyed. If the heroes have not yet taken a drink from the horn, then Aesop will urge them to do so now. This is a sacred ritual that should grant the heroes clarity on their quest.

Aesop asks the heroes to swear an oath to take the horn to Queen Vallus in Mytros. He warns the heroes that King Acastus may attempt to claim the horn as a symbol of his right to resurrect the Dragonlords. Aesop believes that in these uncertain times, the horn rightfully belongs to the Goddess of Wisdom.



	The Keeper of the Dragon Shrine
	Aesop is one of the few priests who still honour the legends of the Dragonlords. In the age before the First War, the dragons were chief among the forces that protected the mortals of Thylea. Aesop believes that the dragons will return one day. He knows that King Acastus of Mytros has sworn to resurrect the ancient order of the Dragonlords, and he has heard rumours that the king now has a small flight of dragons under his command. For his part, Aesop believes that if anyone is to resurrect the Dragonlords, it should be the Oracle's Chosen Ones.