> Near the centre of town is a large building with fortified stone walls and a shingle roof. A sign hangs from the building’s heavy, bronze-banded doors. It reads, Volkan’s Hall. Inside the hall, you are greeted by the warm glow of embers and blasts of hot air. The room is decorated with a variety of bronze armours, weapons, and farming tools. A weathered-looking dwarf works at an anvil near the blistering forge at the back of the hall. He wipes the sweat from his brow and greets you.

[[Volkan]] (see appendix) is actually the legendary God of the Forge and King Pythor’s father. He is not secretive about being one of the Five Gods, but locals have long thought of him as a strange dwarf with delusions of grandeur. He doesn’t bother to correct them.

Volkan comes across as unbalanced, forgetful, and myopic. He provides blacksmithing services to Estoria and all the farming communities in the Heartlands. He can usually be found at his anvil, grumbling about all the  work to be done. Volkan is assisted by a gangly teenaged boy named **Theo** (NG [[commoner]]), who minds the stables and runs errands in town.

## Quest: The Mithral Mines

Volkan recognizes the heroes as the Oracle’s Chosen, and he is vaguely impressed. He rambles at great lengths about the ancient forge in the Mithral Mines. He speaks of the great weapons and artifacts that were forged there in ages past, before Lutheria cursed the place.

Volkan vows to join the heroes in the Mithral Mines once they have rekindled the fires of the forge.