 > This stonework tunnel ends at the precipice of a huge natural rift in the earth. The rocky ceiling is only twenty feet above you, but the rift drops away into a fathomless black depth. Veins of silvery ore can be seen in the sides of the shaft. Ancient mining equipment lines the walls, but the wooden platforms and walkways are rotten and unusable. Chains are attached to the ceiling of the shaft in a pulley system that used to lift ore from the depths. Most of the chains are rusted and many have broken. The area around you has been scored by gouges in the stone, as if some giant claw once reached out of the pit.
 
There is nothing living here, but it has an ominous feel to it. There used to be wooden platforms that allowed dwarves to mine the mithral and adamantine, but most are gone and anything that remains is unusable. There are also pulley systems and ore pails along the sides. 

There is an entrance to the second level 100 ft. down the shaft, but the only way to reach it is to climb the sheer face of the shaft. Doing so requires three successful **DC 15 Strength (Athletics) checks**. Someone who manages this could use pitons and rope to create an easier path for everyone else.

The shaft goes down for a mile, becoming increasingly hot before ending in a huge cavern filled with noxious gas. Stalagmites, stalactites and a fiery red glow give it the appearance of some kind of hell.
 
Falling to the bottom inflicts **70 (20d6) bludgeoning damage**. Every round spent in the gas-filled cavern requires a **DC 10 Constitution saving throw** to avoid being poisoned. This is actually an entrance to the  Underdark which empties into a lake of magma. What lies beyond the lake is outside the scope of this book.