>This room seems to be some sort of dwarven elevator. It is a ten-foot metal cube crafted from bronze, with leering dragon heads engraved into the walls. The dragons are depicted with snarling mouths.

This elevator leads 100 feet down to the Mithral Forge area, but it’s deadly to anyone who doesn’t know the required password. The password is the word “dragon” in dwarvish (the troglodyte king knows this). The elevator is an elaborate and deadly fire trap:

### Triggering the Trap
Inside the elevator is a lever to activate it. Once engaged, the elevator begins to descend. It takes 5 rounds to descend all the way.

- On the second round, all heroes inside must roll for initiative. On initiative count 20 of the second round, black oil is pumped into the room from the mouths of the dragon heads on the top of the elevator. 

- On the third round, the roar of flames can be heard from below and oil continues to be pumped into the room.

- On initiative count 10 of the fourth round, flames pour through mouths of the dragon heads on the sides of the room, igniting the oil. Anyone in the elevator takes **21 (6d6) fire damage** at the end of the fourth round and the fifth round. The damage is reduced by **7 (2d6)** if the oil was blocked before initiative count 10 of round 3 and by a further **7 (2d6)** if blocked before initiative count 10 of the second round.

- At the end of the fifth round, the fire dissipates, and the elevator doors open with a bell chime.

### Disabling the Trap
The trap can be disabled by speaking the command word at any time, or by jamming the mouths of the dragons, to prevent the flames from coming through. If the dragon heads are jammed, they glow fiery red, and the heat is intense.

The heroes can pull the lever to take the elevator back to the upper levels. Descending again will restart the trap mechanism.

